Abbi Glines (Abigail Glines) (born 16 April 1977) is an American New York Times, USA Today, and Wall Street Journal  bestselling novelist. Her new-adult fiction titled Fallen Too Far was self-published on eBook and paperback in 2012.   The remaining of the 'Too Far' series, Never Too Far and Forever Too Far had a lot of success with the younger audience. The content of the books is rated 16+ because of the explicit content. Glines is also the author of the initially self-published young adult bestselling series The Vincent Boys.   Glines recently released the last of the "Too Far" series in the male lead's point of view. The ninth book in the Rosemary Beach series, titled You Were Mine was released 2014.
Abraham Lincoln (February 12, 1809 – April 15, 1865) was an American lawyer and politician who served as the 16th president of the United States from 1861 until his assassination in April 1865. Lincoln led the nation through the Civil War, its bloodiest war and its greatest moral, constitutional, and political crisis. In doing so, he preserved the Union, abolished slavery, strengthened the federal government, and modernized the economy.   Born in Kentucky, Lincoln grew up on the western frontier in a poor family. Self-educated, he became a lawyer in Illinois. As a Whig Party leader, he served eight years in the state legislature and two in Congress, then resumed his law practice. Angered by the success of Democrats in opening the western prairie lands to slavery, he reentered politics in 1854. He was a leader in building in the West the new Republican Party from Whigs and anti-slavery Democrats. He gained national attention in 1858 debating a top national Democratic leader Stephen A. Douglas. Although he lost that race he became the western candidate for the 1860 presidential nomination as a moderate from a swing state. He swept the North and was elected president in 1860. Southern pro-slavery elements took his win as proof that the North was rejecting the Constitutional rights of Southern states to promote slavery. They began the process of seceding from the union and forming a new country. But nationalism was a powerful force in the North, which refused to tolerate secession. When the new Confederate States of America fired on Fort Sumter, one of the few U.S. forts left in the South, Lincoln called up volunteers and militia to suppress the rebellion and restore the Union. As the leader of the moderate faction of the Republican Party, Lincoln confronted Radical Republicans, who demanded harsher treatment of the South; War Democrats, who rallied a large faction of former opponents into his camp; anti-war Democrats (called Copperheads), who despised him; and irreconcilable secessionists, who plotted his assassination.   Lincoln fought back by pitting his opponents against each other, by carefully distributed political patronage and by appealing to the American people with his powers of oratory. His Gettysburg Address became an iconic endorsement of nationalism, republicanism, equal rights, liberty, and democracy. He suspended habeas corpus, and he averted British intervention by defusing the Trent Affair. Lincoln closely supervised the war effort, especially the selection of generals, including his most successful general, Ulysses S. Grant. He made major decisions on Union war strategy, including a naval blockade that shut down the South's trade. As the war progressed, his complex moves toward ending slavery included the Emancipation Proclamation of 1863; Lincoln used the U.S. Army to protect escaped slaves, encouraged the border states to outlaw slavery, and pushed through Congress the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, which permanently outlawed slavery.   An astute politician, knowledgeable concerning factional feuds in each state, Lincoln reached out to the War Democrats and managed his own re-election campaign in the 1864 presidential election. Anticipating the war's conclusion, Lincoln pushed a moderate view of Reconstruction, seeking to reunite the nation speedily through a policy of generous reconciliation in the face of lingering and bitter divisiveness. A few days after victory was complete he was assassinated, and ever since Lincoln has been remembered as the martyr hero of the reunited nation. Lincoln has been consistently ranked both by scholars and the public as among the greatest U.S. presidents.
Adele Rose is an English television writer.   Born in Salford, she was a prolific scriptwriter for Coronation Street, and its longest serving contributor, responsible for penning about 450 scripts for the soap opera between 1961 and her eventual departure from the programme in 1998. Jack Rosenthal was responsible for encouraging Rose to begin writing.   She also wrote for the children's series Byker Grove.  References    1. ^ a b Vice, Sue (2009-04-28). Jack Rosenthal. Manchester University Press. p. 27. Retrieved 1 May 2011.
Adeline Virginia Woolf (/wʊlf/; née Stephen; 25 January 1882 – 28 March 1941) was an English writer, considered one of the most important modernist 20th-century authors and a pioneer in the use of stream of consciousness as a narrative device.   Woolf was born into an affluent household in South Kensington, London, the seventh child in a blended family of eight. Her mother, Julia Prinsep Jackson, celebrated as a Pre-Raphaelite artist's model, had three children from her first marriage; her father, Leslie Stephen, a notable man of letters, had one previous daughter; their marriage produced another four children, including the modernist painter Vanessa Bell. While the boys in the family were educated at university, the girls were home-schooled in English classics and Victorian literature. An important influence in her early life was the summer home the family used in St Ives, Cornwall, where she first saw the Godrevy Lighthouse, which was to become iconic in her novel To the Lighthouse (1927).   Woolf's childhood came to an abrupt end in 1895 with the death of her mother and her first mental breakdown, followed two years later by the death of her stepsister and surrogate mother, Stella Duckworth. From 1897–1901, she attended the Ladies' Department of King's College London, where she studied classics and history and came into contact with early reformers of women's higher education and the women's rights movement. Other important influences were her Cambridge-educated brothers and unfettered access to their father's vast library. She began writing professionally in 1900, encouraged by her father, whose death in 1905 was a major turning point in her life and the cause of another breakdown. Following the death, the family moved from Kensington to the more bohemian Bloomsbury, where they adopted a free-spirited lifestyle; it was there that, in conjunction with their brothers' intellectual friends, they formed the artistic and literary Bloomsbury Group. In 1912, Woolf married Leonard Woolf and in 1917 they founded the Hogarth Press, which published much of her work. The couple rented second homes in Sussex and moved there permanently in 1940. Throughout her life, Woolf was troubled by bouts of mental illness, which included being institutionalised and attempting suicide. Her illness is considered to have been bipolar disorder, for which there was no effective intervention at the time. Eventually in 1941 she committed suicide by putting rocks in her pockets and drowning herself in a river, at the age of 59.   During the interwar period, Woolf was an important part of London's literary and artistic society. She published her first novel, The Voyage Out, in 1915, through her half-brother's publishing house, Gerald Duckworth and Company. Her best-known works include the novels Mrs Dalloway (1925), To the Lighthouse (1927) and Orlando (1928). She is also known for her essays, including A Room of One's Own (1929), in which she wrote the much-quoted dictum, "A woman must have money and a room of her own if she is to write fiction."   Woolf became one of the central subjects of the 1970s movement of feminist criticism, and her works have since garnered much attention and widespread commentary for "inspiring feminism", an aspect of her writing that was unheralded earlier. Her works are widely read all over the world and have been translated into more than 50 languages. A large body of literature is dedicated to her life and work, and she has been the subject of many plays, novels, and films. Some of her writing has been considered offensive and has been criticised for a number of complex and controversial views, including anti-semitism and elitism. Woolf is commemorated today by statues, societies dedicated to her work and a building at the University of London.
Adolf Hitler (German: [ˈadɔlf ˈhɪtlɐ] (; 20 April 1889 – 30 April 1945) was a German politician and leader of the Nazi Party (Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei; NSDAP). He rose to power to become dictator of Germany, serving as Chancellor from 1933 and Führer ("Leader") from 1934. During his dictatorship from 1933 to 1945, he initiated World War II in Europe by invading Poland in September 1939. He closely supervised military operations during the war and by December 1941 had full control of all strategic decisions, especially on the Eastern Front. He was central to the perpetration of the Holocaust.   Hitler was born in Austria—then part of Austria-Hungary—and was raised near Linz. He moved to Germany in 1913 and was decorated during his service in the German Army in World War I. In 1919, he joined the German Workers' Party (DAP), the precursor of the NSDAP, and was appointed leader of the NSDAP in 1921. In 1923, he attempted to seize power in a failed coup in Munich and was imprisoned. In jail, he dictated the first volume of his autobiography and political manifesto Mein Kampf ("My Struggle"). After his release in 1924, Hitler gained popular support by attacking the Treaty of Versailles and promoting Pan-Germanism, anti-semitism and anti-communism with charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda. He frequently denounced international capitalism and communism as part of a Jewish conspiracy.   By July 1932 the Nazi Party was the largest elected party in the German Reichstag, but did not have a majority, and no party was able to form a majority parliamentary coalition in support of a candidate for chancellor. Former chancellor Franz von Papen and other conservative leaders persuaded President Paul von Hindenburg to appoint Hitler as Chancellor on 30 January 1933. Shortly after, the Reichstag passed the Enabling Act of 1933, which began the process of transforming the Weimar Republic into Nazi Germany, a one-party dictatorship based on the totalitarian and autocratic ideology of National Socialism. Hitler aimed to eliminate Jews from Germany and establish a New Order to counter what he saw as the injustice of the post-World War I international order dominated by Britain and France. His first six years in power resulted in rapid economic recovery from the Great Depression, the abrogation of restrictions imposed on Germany after World War I, and the annexation of territories inhabited by millions of ethnic Germans, which gave him significant popular support.   Hitler sought Lebensraum ("living space") for the German people in Eastern Europe, and his aggressive foreign policy is considered the primary cause of World War II in Europe. He directed large-scale rearmament and, on 1 September 1939, invaded Poland, resulting in Britain and France declaring war on Germany. In June 1941, Hitler ordered an invasion of the Soviet Union. By the end of 1941, German forces and the European Axis powers occupied most of Europe and North Africa. In December 1941, he declared war on the United States, bringing them directly into the conflict. Failure to defeat the Soviets and the entry of the United States into the war forced Germany onto the defensive and it suffered a series of escalating defeats. In the final days of the war, during the Battle of Berlin in 1945, he married his longtime lover Eva Braun. Less than two days later, on 30 April 1945, the two committed suicide to avoid capture by the Soviet Red Army; their corpses were burned.   Under Hitler's leadership and racially motivated ideology, the Nazi regime was responsible for the genocide of at least 5.5 million Jews and millions of other victims whom he and his followers deemed Untermenschen (subhumans) or socially undesirable. Hitler and the Nazi regime were also responsible for the killing of an estimated 19.3 million civilians and prisoners of war. In addition, 28.7 million soldiers and civilians died as a result of military action in the European theatre. The number of civilians killed during World War II was unprecedented in warfare, and the casualties constitute the deadliest conflict in history.
Adriana Trigiani is an Italian American best-selling author of sixteen books, television writer, film director, and entrepreneur based in New York City. Trigiani has published a novel a year since 2000.
Aeschylus (UK: /ˈiːskɪləs/, US: /ˈɛskɪləs/; Greek: Αἰσχύλος Aiskhylos, pronounced [ai̯s.kʰý.los]; c. 525/524 – c. 456/455 BC) was an ancient Greek tragedian. He is often described as the father of tragedy. Academics' knowledge of the genre begins with his work, and understanding of earlier tragedies is largely based on inferences from his surviving plays. According to Aristotle, he expanded the number of characters in the theater and allowed conflict among them; characters previously had interacted only with the chorus.[nb 1]   Only seven of his estimated seventy to ninety plays have survived, and there is a long-standing debate regarding his authorship of one of these plays, Prometheus Bound, which some believe his son Euphorion actually wrote. Fragments of some other plays have survived in quotations and more continue to be discovered on Egyptian papyrus, often giving us surprising insights into his work. He was probably the first dramatist to present plays as a trilogy; his Oresteia is the only ancient example of the form to have survived. At least one of his plays was influenced by the Persians' second invasion of Greece (480–479 BC). This work, The Persians, is the only surviving classical Greek tragedy concerned with contemporary events (very few of that kind were ever written), and a useful source of information about its period. The significance of war in Ancient Greek culture was so great that Aeschylus' epitaph commemorates his participation in the Greek victory at Marathon while making no mention of his success as a playwright. Despite this, Aeschylus's work – particularly the Oresteia – is generally acclaimed by modern critics and scholars.
Aesop (/ˈiːsɒp/ EE-sop; Greek: Αἴσωπος, Aisōpos; c. 620 – 564 BCE) was a Greek fabulist and storyteller credited with a number of fables now collectively known as Aesop's Fables. Although his existence remains unclear and no writings by him survive, numerous tales credited to him were gathered across the centuries and in many languages in a storytelling tradition that continues to this day. Many of the tales are characterized by animals and inanimate objects that speak, solve problems, and generally have human characteristics.   Scattered details of Aesop's life can be found in ancient sources, including Aristotle, Herodotus, and Plutarch. An ancient literary work called The Aesop Romance tells an episodic, probably highly fictional version of his life, including the traditional description of him as a strikingly ugly slave (δοῦλος) who by his cleverness acquires freedom and becomes an adviser to kings and city-states. Older spellings of his name have included Esop(e) and Isope. Depictions of Aesop in popular culture over the last 2500 years have included many works of art and his appearance as a character in numerous books, films, plays, and television programs.
Aidan Chambers (born 27 December 1934) is a British author of children's and young-adult novels. He won both the British Carnegie Medal and the American Printz Award for Postcards from No Man's Land (1999). For his "lasting contribution to children's literature" he won the biennial, international Hans Christian Andersen Award in 2002.
Alain de Botton, FRSL (/dəˈbɒtən/; born 20 December 1969) is a Swiss-born British philosopher and author. His books discuss various contemporary subjects and themes, emphasizing philosophy's relevance to everyday life. He published Essays in Love (1993), which went on to sell two million copies. Other bestsellers include How Proust Can Change Your Life (1997), Status Anxiety (2004) and The Architecture of Happiness (2006).   He co-founded The School of Life in 2008 and Living Architecture in 2009. In 2015, he was awarded "The Fellowship of Schopenhauer", an annual writers' award from the Melbourne Writers Festival, for this work.
Alan Bennett (born 9 May 1934) is an English playwright, screenwriter, actor, and author. He was born in Leeds and attended Oxford University, where he studied history and performed with the Oxford Revue. He stayed to teach and research medieval history at the university for several years. His collaboration as writer and performer with Dudley Moore, Jonathan Miller and Peter Cook in the satirical revue Beyond the Fringe at the 1960 Edinburgh Festival brought him instant fame. He gave up academia, and turned to writing full-time, his first stage play Forty Years On being produced in 1968.   His work includes The Madness of George III and its film adaptation, the series of monologues Talking Heads, play and subsequent film of The History Boys, and popular audio books, including his readings of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Winnie-the-Pooh.
Alan Moore (born 18 November 1953) is an English writer known primarily for his work in comic books including Watchmen, V for Vendetta, The Ballad of Halo Jones and From Hell. Regarded by some as the best graphic novel writer in history, he is widely recognised among his peers and critics. He has occasionally used such pseudonyms as Curt Vile, Jill de Ray, and Translucia Baboon; also, reprints of some of his work have been credited to The Original Writer when Moore requested that his name be removed.   Moore started writing for British underground and alternative fanzines in the late 1970s before achieving success publishing comic strips in such magazines as 2000 AD and Warrior. He was subsequently picked up by the American DC Comics, and as "the first comics writer living in Britain to do prominent work in America",(p7) he worked on major characters such as Batman (Batman: The Killing Joke) and Superman (Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow?), substantially developed the character Swamp Thing, and penned original titles such as Watchmen. During that decade, Moore helped to bring about greater social respectability for comics in the United States and United Kingdom.(p11) He prefers the term "comic" to "graphic novel". In the late 1980s and early 1990s he left the comic industry mainstream and went independent for a while, working on experimental work such as the epic From Hell and the prose novel Voice of the Fire. He subsequently returned to the mainstream later in the 1990s, working for Image Comics, before developing America's Best Comics, an imprint through which he published works such as The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen and the occult-based Promethea.   Moore is an occultist, ceremonial magician, and anarchist, and has featured such themes in works including Promethea, From Hell, and V for Vendetta, as well as performing avant-garde spoken word occult "workings" with The Moon and Serpent Grand Egyptian Theatre of Marvels, some of which have been released on CD.   Despite his own personal objections, his works have provided the basis for a number of Hollywood films, including From Hell (2001), The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen (2003), V for Vendetta (2005), and Watchmen (2009). Moore has also been referenced in popular culture, and has been recognised as an influence on a variety of literary and television figures including Neil Gaiman, Joss Whedon, and Damon Lindelof. He has lived a significant portion of his life in Northampton, England, and he has said in various interviews that his stories draw heavily from his experiences living there.
Alan Wilson Watts (6 January 1915 – 16 November 1973) was a British-American philosopher who interpreted and popularised Eastern philosophy for a Western audience. Born in Chislehurst, England, he moved to the United States in 1938 and began Zen training in New York. Pursuing a career, he attended Seabury-Western Theological Seminary, where he received a master's degree in theology. Watts became an Episcopal priest in 1945, then left the ministry in 1950 and moved to California, where he joined the faculty of the American Academy of Asian Studies.   Watts gained a large following in the San Francisco Bay Area while working as a volunteer programmer at KPFA, a Pacifica Radio station in Berkeley. Watts wrote more than 25 books and articles on subjects important to Eastern and Western religion, introducing the then-burgeoning youth culture to The Way of Zen (1957), one of the first bestselling books on Buddhism. In Psychotherapy East and West (1961), Watts proposed that Buddhism could be thought of as a form of psychotherapy and not a religion. He considered Nature, Man and Woman (1958) to be, "from a literary point of view—the best book I have ever written." He also explored human consciousness, in the essay "The New Alchemy" (1958), and in the book The Joyous Cosmology (1962).   Towards the end of his life, he divided his time between a houseboat in Sausalito and a cabin on Mount Tamalpais. According to the critic Erik Davis, his "writings and recorded talks still shimmer with a profound and galvanizing lucidity."
Albert Bandura OC (/bænˈdʊərə/; born December 4, 1925) is a Canadian-American psychologist who is the David Starr Jordan Professor Emeritus of Social Science in Psychology at Stanford University.   Bandura has been responsible for contributions to the field of education and to several fields of psychology, including social cognitive theory, therapy, and personality psychology, and was also of influence in the transition between behaviorism and cognitive psychology. He is known as the originator of social learning theory (renamed the social cognitive theory) and the theoretical construct of self-efficacy, and is also responsible for the influential 1961 Bobo doll experiment. This Bobo doll experiment demonstrated the concept of observational learning.   A 2002 survey ranked Bandura as the fourth most-frequently cited psychologist of all time, behind B. F. Skinner, Sigmund Freud, and Jean Piaget, and as the most cited living one. Bandura is widely described as the greatest living psychologist, and as one of the most influential psychologists of all time.
Albert Camus (/kæˈmuː/; French: [albɛʁ kamy] (; 7 November 1913 – 4 January 1960) was a French philosopher, author, and journalist. His views contributed to the rise of the philosophy known as absurdism. He wrote in his essay The Rebel that his whole life was devoted to opposing the philosophy of nihilism while still delving deeply into individual freedom. He won the Nobel Prize in Literature at the age of 44 in 1957, the second youngest recipient in history.   Camus did not consider himself to be an existentialist despite usually being classified as a follower of it, even in his lifetime. In a 1945 interview, Camus rejected any ideological associations: "No, I am not an existentialist. Sartre and I are always surprised to see our names linked."   Camus was born in French Algeria to a Pied-Noir family and studied at the University of Algiers, from which he graduated in 1936. In 1949, Camus founded the Group for International Liaisons to "denounce two ideologies found in both the USSR and the USA".
Albert Einstein (/ˈaɪnstaɪn/; German: [ˈalbɛɐ̯t ˈʔaɪnʃtaɪn] (; 14 March 1879 – 18 April 1955) was a German-born theoretical physicist who developed the theory of relativity, one of the two pillars of modern physics (alongside quantum mechanics).:274 His work is also known for its influence on the philosophy of science. He is best known to the general public for his mass–energy equivalence formula E = mc2, which has been dubbed "the world's most famous equation". He received the 1921 Nobel Prize in Physics "for his services to theoretical physics, and especially for his discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect", a pivotal step in the development of quantum theory.   Near the beginning of his career, Einstein thought that Newtonian mechanics was no longer enough to reconcile the laws of classical mechanics with the laws of the electromagnetic field. This led him to develop his special theory of relativity during his time at the Swiss Patent Office in Bern (1902–1909), Switzerland. However, he realized that the principle of relativity could also be extended to gravitational fields, and he published a paper on general relativity in 1916 with his theory of gravitation. He continued to deal with problems of statistical mechanics and quantum theory, which led to his explanations of particle theory and the motion of molecules. He also investigated the thermal properties of light which laid the foundation of the photon theory of light. In 1917, he applied the general theory of relativity to model the structure of the universe.   Except for one year in Prague, Einstein lived in Switzerland between 1895 and 1914, during which time he renounced his German citizenship in 1896, then received his academic diploma from the Swiss federal polytechnic school (later the Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule, ETH) in Zürich in 1900. After being stateless for more than five years, he acquired Swiss citizenship in 1901, which he kept for the rest of his life. In 1905, he was awarded a PhD by the University of Zurich. The same year, he published four groundbreaking papers during his renowned annus mirabilis (miracle year) which brought him to the notice of the academic world at the age of 26. Einstein taught theoretical physics at Zurich between 1912 and 1914 before he left for Berlin, where he was elected to the Prussian Academy of Sciences.   In 1933, while Einstein was visiting the United States, Adolf Hitler came to power. Because of his Jewish background, Einstein did not return to Germany. He settled in the United States and became an American citizen in 1940. On the eve of World War II, he endorsed a letter to President Franklin D. Roosevelt alerting him to the potential development of "extremely powerful bombs of a new type" and recommending that the US begin similar research. This eventually led to the Manhattan Project. Einstein supported the Allies, but he generally denounced the idea of using nuclear fission as a weapon. He signed the Russell–Einstein Manifesto with British philosopher Bertrand Russell, which highlighted the danger of nuclear weapons. He was affiliated with the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, until his death in 1955.   Einstein published more than 300 scientific papers and more than 150 non-scientific works. His intellectual achievements and originality have made the word "Einstein" synonymous with "genius". Eugene Wigner wrote of Einstein in comparison to his contemporaries that "Einstein's understanding was deeper even than Jancsi von Neumann's. His mind was both more penetrating and more original than von Neumann's. And that is a very remarkable statement."
Albert Ellis (September 27, 1913 – July 24, 2007) was an American psychologist who in 1955 developed Rational Emotive Behavior Therapy (REBT). He held MA and PhD degrees in clinical psychology from Columbia University and the American Board of Professional Psychology (ABPP). He also founded and was the President of the New York City-based Albert Ellis Institute for decades. He is generally considered to be one of the originators of the cognitive revolutionary paradigm shift in psychotherapy and one of the founders of cognitive-behavioral therapies.   Based on a 1982 professional survey of US and Canadian psychologists, he was considered as the second most influential psychotherapist in history (Carl Rogers ranked first in the survey; Sigmund Freud was ranked third). Psychology Today noted, "No individual—not even Freud himself—has had a greater impact on modern psychotherapy."
Alberto Manguel, OC, FRSL (born 1948 in Buenos Aires) is an Argentine Canadian anthologist, translator, essayist, novelist, editor, and Director of the National Library of Argentina. He is the author of numerous non-fiction books such as The Dictionary of Imaginary Places (co-written with Gianni Guadalupi in 1980), A History of Reading (1996), The Library at Night (2007) and Homer's Iliad and Odyssey: A Biography (2008); and novels such as News From a Foreign Country Came (1991). Though almost all of Manguel's books were written in English, two of his novels (El regreso and Todos los hombres son mentirosos) were written in Spanish, and El regreso has not yet been published in English. Manguel has also written film criticism such as Bride of Frankenstein (1997) and collections of essays such as Into the Looking Glass Wood (1998). In 2007, Manguel was selected to be that year's annual lecturer for the prestigious Massey Lectures.   For over twenty years, Manguel has edited a number of literary anthologies on a variety of themes or genres ranging from erotica and gay stories to fantastic literature and mysteries.
Albert Schweitzer, OM (14 January 1875 – 4 September 1965) was an Alsatian theologian, organist, writer, humanitarian, philosopher, and physician. A Lutheran, Schweitzer challenged both the secular view of Jesus as depicted by the historical-critical method current at this time, as well as the traditional Christian view. His contributions to the interpretation of Pauline Christianity concern the role of Paul's mysticism of "being in Christ" as primary and the doctrine of Justification by Faith as secondary.   He received the 1952 Nobel Peace Prize for his philosophy of "Reverence for Life", becoming the eighth Frenchman to be awarded that prize. His philosophy was expressed in many ways, but most famously in founding and sustaining the Albert Schweitzer Hospital in Lambaréné, in the part of French Equatorial Africa which is now Gabon. As a music scholar and organist, he studied the music of German composer Johann Sebastian Bach and influenced the Organ Reform Movement (Orgelbewegung).
Aleister Crowley (/ˈæleɪstər ˈkroʊli/; born Edward Alexander Crowley; 12 October 1875 – 1 December 1947) was an English occultist, ceremonial magician, poet, painter, novelist, and mountaineer. He founded the religion of Thelema, identifying himself as the prophet entrusted with guiding humanity into the Æon of Horus in the early 20th century. A prolific writer, he published widely over the course of his life.   Born to a wealthy family in Royal Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, Crowley rejected his parent's fundamentalist Christian Plymouth Brethren faith to pursue an interest in Western esotericism. He was educated at the University of Cambridge, where he focused his attentions on mountaineering and poetry, resulting in several publications. Some biographers allege that here he was recruited into a British intelligence agency, further suggesting that he remained a spy throughout his life. In 1898 he joined the esoteric Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, where he was trained in ceremonial magic by Samuel Liddell MacGregor Mathers and Allan Bennett. Moving to Boleskine House by Loch Ness in Scotland, he went mountaineering in Mexico with Oscar Eckenstein, before studying Hindu and Buddhist practices in India. He married Rose Edith Kelly and in 1904 they honeymooned in Cairo, Egypt, where Crowley claimed to have been contacted by a supernatural entity named Aiwass, who provided him with The Book of the Law, a sacred text that served as the basis for Thelema. Announcing the start of the Æon of Horus, The Book declared that its followers should "Do what thou wilt" and seek to align themselves with their True Will through the practice of magick.   After an unsuccessful attempt to climb Kanchenjunga and a visit to India and China, Crowley returned to Britain, where he attracted attention as a prolific author of poetry, novels, and occult literature. In 1907, he and George Cecil Jones co-founded an esoteric order, the A∴A∴, through which they propagated Thelema. After spending time in Algeria, in 1912 he was initiated into another esoteric order, the German-based Ordo Templi Orientis (O.T.O.), rising to become the leader of its British branch, which he reformulated in accordance with his Thelemite beliefs. Through the O.T.O., Thelemite groups were established in Britain, Australia, and North America. Crowley spent the First World War in the United States, where he took up painting and campaigned for the German war effort against Britain, later revealing that he had infiltrated the pro-German movement to assist the British intelligence services. In 1920 he established the Abbey of Thelema, a religious commune in Cefalù, Sicily where he lived with various followers. His libertine lifestyle led to denunciations in the British press, and the Italian government evicted him in 1923. He divided the following two decades between France, Germany, and England, and continued to promote Thelema until his death.   Crowley gained widespread notoriety during his lifetime, being a recreational drug experimenter, bisexual and an individualist social critic. He was denounced in the popular press as "the wickedest man in the world" and a Satanist. Crowley has remained a highly influential figure over Western esotericism and the counterculture, and continues to be considered a prophet in Thelema. He is the subject of various biographies and academic studies.
Alexander Pope (21 May 1688 – 30 May 1744) was an 18th-century English poet. He is best known for his satirical verse, including Essay on Criticism, The Rape of the Lock and The Dunciad, and for his translation of Homer. He is the second-most frequently quoted writer in The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations after Shakespeare.
Alexandra Adornetto is the pen name of Alexandra Grace (born 18 April 1994), an Australian author who writes for children and young adults. Her works include The Strangest Adventures series, the Halo trilogy and The Ghost House Saga.
Alexandra Bracken (born 27 February 1987, Phoenix, Arizona) is an American writer, a #1 New York Times bestselling American author, known for The Darkest Minds series and Passenger series.
Alexandre Dumas (UK: /ˈdjuːmɑː, dʊˈmɑː/, US: /djuːˈmɑː/; French: [alɛksɑ̃dʁ dyma]; born Dumas Davy de la Pailleterie [dyma davi də la pajətʁi]; 24 July 1802 – 5 December 1870), also known as Alexandre Dumas père (French for 'father'), was a French writer. His works have been translated into many languages, and he is one of the most widely read French authors. Many of his historical novels of high adventure were originally published as serials, including The Count of Monte Cristo, The Three Musketeers, Twenty Years After, and The Vicomte de Bragelonne: Ten Years Later. His novels have been adapted since the early twentieth century for nearly 200 films. Dumas' last novel, The Knight of Sainte-Hermine, unfinished at his death, was completed by scholar Claude Schopp and published in 2005. It was published in English in 2008 as The Last Cavalier.   Prolific in several genres, Dumas began his career by writing plays, which were successfully produced from the first. He also wrote numerous magazine articles and travel books; his published works totalled 100,000 pages. In the 1840s, Dumas founded the Théâtre Historique in Paris.   His father, General Thomas-Alexandre Davy de la Pailleterie, was born in the French colony of Saint-Domingue (present-day Haiti) to Alexandre Antoine Davy de la Pailleterie, a French nobleman, and Marie-Cessette Dumas, a slave of African descent. At age 14 Thomas-Alexandre was taken by his father to France, where he was educated in a military academy and entered the military for what became an illustrious career.   Dumas' father's aristocratic rank helped young Alexandre acquire work with Louis-Philippe, Duke of Orléans. He later began working as a writer, finding early success. Decades later, in the election of Louis-Napoléon Bonaparte in 1851, Dumas fell from favour and left France for Belgium, where he stayed for several years. Upon leaving Belgium, Dumas moved to Russia for a few years before going to Italy. In 1861, he founded and published the newspaper L'Indipendente, which supported the Italian unification effort. In 1864, he returned to Paris.   Though married, in the tradition of Frenchmen of higher social class, Dumas had numerous affairs (allegedly as many as forty). In his lifetime, he was known to have at least four illegitimate children; although twentieth-century scholars found that Dumas fathered another three other children out of wedlock. He acknowledged and assisted his son, Alexandre Dumas, to become a successful novelist and playwright. They are known as Alexandre Dumas père ('father') and Alexandre Dumas fils ('son'). Among his affairs, in 1866, Dumas had one with Adah Isaacs Menken, an American actress then less than half his age and at the height of her career.   The English playwright Watts Phillips, who knew Dumas in his later life, described him as "the most generous, large-hearted being in the world. He also was the most delightfully amusing and egotistical creature on the face of the earth. His tongue was like a windmill – once set in motion, you never knew when he would stop, especially if the theme was himself."
Alfred Adler (/ˈædlər/; German: [ˈaːdlɐ]; 7 February 1870 – 28 May 1937) was an Austrian medical doctor, psychotherapist, and founder of the school of individual psychology. His emphasis on the importance of feelings of inferiority, the inferiority complex, is recognized as an isolating element which plays a key role in personality development. Alfred Adler considered human beings as an individual whole, therefore he called his psychology "Individual Psychology" (Orgler 1976).   Adler was the first to emphasize the importance of the social element in the re-adjustment process of the individual and who carried psychiatry into the community. A Review of General Psychology survey, published in 2002, ranked Adler as the 67th most eminent psychologist of the 20th century.
Alfred North Whitehead OM FRS FBA (15 February 1861 – 30 December 1947) was an English mathematician and philosopher. He is best known as the defining figure of the philosophical school known as process philosophy, which today has found application to a wide variety of disciplines, including ecology, theology, education, physics, biology, economics, and psychology, among other areas.   In his early career Whitehead wrote primarily on mathematics, logic, and physics. His most notable work in these fields is the three-volume Principia Mathematica (1910–1913), which he wrote with former student Bertrand Russell. Principia Mathematica is considered one of the twentieth century's most important works in mathematical logic, and placed 23rd in a list of the top 100 English-language nonfiction books of the twentieth century by Modern Library.   Beginning in the late 1910s and early 1920s, Whitehead gradually turned his attention from mathematics to philosophy of science, and finally to metaphysics. He developed a comprehensive metaphysical system which radically departed from most of western philosophy. Whitehead argued that reality consists of processes rather than material objects, and that processes are best defined by their relations with other processes, thus rejecting the theory that reality is fundamentally constructed by bits of matter that exist independently of one another. Today Whitehead's philosophical works – particularly Process and Reality – are regarded as the foundational texts of process philosophy.   Whitehead's process philosophy argues that "there is urgency in coming to see the world as a web of interrelated processes of which we are integral parts, so that all of our choices and actions have consequences for the world around us." For this reason, one of the most promising applications of Whitehead's thought in recent years has been in the area of ecological civilization and environmental ethics pioneered by John B. Cobb Jr.
Alfred Tennyson, 1st Baron Tennyson FRS (6 August 1809 – 6 October 1892) was a British poet. He was the Poet Laureate of Great Britain and Ireland during much of Queen Victoria's reign and remains one of the most popular British poets. In 1829, Tennyson was awarded the Chancellor's Gold Medal at Cambridge for one of his first pieces, "Timbuktu". He published his first solo collection of poems, Poems Chiefly Lyrical in 1830. "Claribel" and "Mariana", which remain some of Tennyson's most celebrated poems, were included in this volume. Although decried by some critics as overly sentimental, his verse soon proved popular and brought Tennyson to the attention of well-known writers of the day, including Samuel Taylor Coleridge. Tennyson's early poetry, with its medievalism and powerful visual imagery, was a major influence on the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood.   Tennyson also excelled at penning short lyrics, such as "Break, Break, Break", "The Charge of the Light Brigade", "Tears, Idle Tears", and "Crossing the Bar". Much of his verse was based on classical mythological themes, such as "Ulysses", although "In Memoriam A.H.H." was written to commemorate his friend Arthur Hallam, a fellow poet and student at Trinity College, Cambridge, after he died of a stroke at the age of 22. Tennyson also wrote some notable blank verse including Idylls of the King, "Ulysses", and "Tithonus". During his career, Tennyson attempted drama, but his plays enjoyed little success.   A number of phrases from Tennyson's work have become commonplaces of the English language, including "Nature, red in tooth and claw" (In Memoriam A.H.H.), "'Tis better to have loved and lost / Than never to have loved at all", "Theirs not to reason why, / Theirs but to do and die", "My strength is as the strength of ten, / Because my heart is pure", "To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield", "Knowledge comes, but Wisdom lingers", and "The old order changeth, yielding place to new". He is the ninth most frequently quoted writer in The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations.
Alice Hoffman (born March 16, 1952) is an American novelist and young-adult and children's writer, best known for her 1995 novel Practical Magic, which was adapted for a 1998 film of the same name. Many of her works fall into the genre of magic realism and contain elements of magic, irony, and non-standard romances and relationships.
Alice Sebold (born September 6, 1963) is an American writer. She has published three books: Lucky (1999), The Lovely Bones (2002), and The Almost Moon (2007).
Alice Walker (born February 9, 1944) is an American novelist, short story writer, poet, and activist. She wrote the novel The Color Purple (1982), for which she won the National Book Award for hardcover fiction, and the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction. She also wrote the novels Meridian (1976) and The Third Life of Grange Copeland (1970), among other works. An avowed feminist, Walker coined the term "womanist" to mean "A black feminist or feminist of color" in 1983.
Ali Smith CBE FRSL (born 24 August 1962) is a Scottish author, playwright, academic and journalist. Sebastian Barry described her in 2016 as "Scotland's Nobel laureate-in-waiting".
Alison Croggon (born 1962 ) is a contemporary Australian poet, playwright, fantasy novelist, and librettist.    Alison CroggonBorn1962 (1962) (age 56) Transvaal, South AfricaOccupationNovelistNationalityAustralianGenreFantasy, fiction, poetry, libretti
Allan Lokos is the founder and guiding teacher of the Community Meditation Center located on New York City’s upper west side. He is the author of Pocket Peace: Effective Practices for Enlightened Living (Tarcher/Penguin; 2010), Patience: The Art of Peaceful Living (Tarcher/Penguin; 2012), and Through the Flames: Overcoming Disaster Through Compassion, Patience, and Determination (Tarcher/Penguin/Random House; 2015). His writing has appeared in The Huffington Post, Tricycle magazine, Beliefnet, and several anthologies.   Among the places he has taught are Columbia University Teachers College, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, The Barre Center for Buddhist Studies, Marymount Manhattan College, The Rubin Museum of Art Brainwave Series, BuddhaFest, NY Insight Meditation Center, The NY Open Center, Tibet House, and Insight Meditation Community of Washington. Lokos has practiced meditation since the mid-nineties and studied with such renowned teachers as Sharon Salzberg, Thích Nhất Hạnh, Joseph Goldstein, Andrew Olendzki, and Stephen Batchelor.[citation needed]   Earlier in this life Lokos enjoyed a successful career as a professional singer. He was in the original Broadway companies of Oliver!, Pickwick (musical), and the Stratford Festival/Broadway production of The Pirates of Penzance.[citation needed]   On Christmas day, 2012, Lokos and his wife Susanna Weiss were in a horrific plane crash in Burma. Doctors in four countries said that he could not possibly survive his injuries. Yet he did and has gone on to thrive in his teaching and writing. His book, Through the Flames, tells the story of the accident and offers a wide array of teachings from the Buddhist perspective. His against all odds recovery and joyful outlook have become an inspiration for many.  External links   - http://www.cmcnewyork.org - http://tricycle.org/magazine/skillful-speech/ - http://www.amazon.com/Audacious-Creativity-Liberate-Energy- - http://www.amazon.com/Pocket-Peace-Effective-Practices-Enlightened/dp/1585427810
Ally Carter is the pen name of Sarah Leigh Fogleman (born January 1, 1974), an American author of young adult fiction and adult-fiction novels.
Ally Condie is an author of young adult and middle grade fiction. Her novel Matched was a #1 New York Times and international bestseller, and spent over a year on the New York Times Bestseller List.[citation needed] The sequels (Crossed and Reached) are also New York Times bestsellers.[citation needed] Matched was chosen as one of YALSA's 2011 Teens' Top Ten  and named as one of Publishers Weekly's Best Children's Books of 2010. All three books are available in 30+ languages.   Condie is also the author of the New York Times bestseller Atlantia (a standalone novel published in 2014) and Summerlost (a middle grade novel published in 2016). Summerlost was a finalist for the 2017 Edgar Award for Best Juvenile Mystery.   She is the founder and director of the WriteOut Foundation, a non-profit 501 (3) (c) foundation that runs writing camps for rural teens. She is also a member of the Yallwest Board and is on the board of Go Jane Give.
A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view. Please discuss further on the talk page. (April 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Alessandra TorreBornTallahassee, FloridaNationalityAmericanOccupationNovelistWebsitewww.alessandratorre.com   Alessandra Torre is an American novelist best known for contemporary erotica. Torre is a New York Times, USA Today, Wall Street Journal and Amazon International bestselling novelist. Alessandra is the Bedroom Blogger for Cosmopolitan. She has been a guest columnist for the Huffington Post, RT Book Reviews, and was featured in Elle Magazine. In 2015, her novel The Girl in 6E was optioned for film by EuropaCorp.
A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view. Please discuss further on the talk page. (April 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)     Markus ZusakMarkus Zusak in 2013BornMarkus Frank Zusak  (1975-06-23) 23 June 1975 (age 43) Sydney, AustraliaOccupationWriterAlma materUniversity of New South WalesPeriod1999–presentNotable awardsMargaret A. Edwards Award   2014  SpouseMika ZusakChildren2Websitewww.zusakbooks.com   Markus Frank Zusak (born 23 June 1975) is an Australian writer. He is best known for The Book Thief and The Messenger (US title: I Am the Messenger), two novels for young adults which became international bestsellers. He won the Margaret A. Edwards Award in 2014 for his contributions to young-adult literature published in the United States.
A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view. Please discuss further on the talk page. (February 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) quality standards, event notability guideline, or encyclopedic content policy. (February 2018) This biographical article is written like a résumé. Please help improve it by revising it to be neutral and encyclopedic. (January 2016)  (Learn how and when to remove this template message)     Subodh GuptaOccupationArtist   Subodh Gupta is an Indian contemporary artist based in New Delhi. Trained as a painter, he went on to experiment with a variety of media. His work encompasses sculpture, installation, painting, photography, performance and video.
A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view. Please discuss further on the talk page. (July 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)  (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Christine King FeehanBornChristine King California, United StatesOccupationNovelistNationalityAmericanPeriod1999–presentGenreRomance, paranormal romance, fantasy, paranormalWebsitewww.christinefeehan.com   Christine Feehan (b. Christine King in California) is an American romance-paranormal writer. She has published more than 40 novels, including five series, and numerous novellas since 1999.
A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view. Please discuss further on the talk page. (June 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful. (March 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)  (Learn how and when to remove this template message)  Cohn at the 2016 Texas Book Festival.   Rachel Cohn (born December 14, 1968) is an American young adult fiction (YA) writer. Her first book, Gingerbread, was published in 2002. Since then she has gone on to write many other successful YA and younger children's books, and has collaborated on five books with the author David Levithan.
A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view. Please discuss further on the talk page. (June 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) 2018 -- "The Bimbo Has MORE Brains... Surviving Political Correctness"Notable awards2009 Easter Seals David P. Goodwin Lifetime Commitment AwardSpouseRonald Charles MartinChildren4 Step-Children: Christopher, Keira, Nina, and AdamRelativesParents: Robert & Glenna Burnham; Siblings: Deborah Burnham & James BurnhamWebsitegoodliving123.com   Cathy Burnham Martin (born May 10, 1954) is an American author, voiceover artist, actress, and former television news anchor. She has authored more than a dozen books, including the human training manual “A Dangerous Book for Dogs” and “Of the Same Blood: Your Eurasian Heritage,” which reflects on her grandmother's life drama and her Armenian-European-American heritage. Martin produces and narrates audiobooks for both fiction and nonfiction titles. She is noted for creating the KISS™ Keep It Super Simple cookbook series. A member of the Actors' Equity Association since 1994, she was a 20+ year professional member of the National Speakers Association since 1995, where she is referred to as “The Morale Booster.”  Early life   Born in Goffstown, New Hampshire, Catherine Ann Burnham is the middle child of Robert and Glenna Burnham. Before graduating from Goffstown High School in 1972, Cathy represented the Granite State in the America's Junior Miss Pageant in Mobile, Alabama as New Hampshire's Junior Miss.   She studied Speech and Theatre at Stetson University in DeLand, Florida, before transferring to Southern New Hampshire University (then New Hampshire College) in 1974. As a student, she made her professional acting debut in 1974 in a New Hampshire Repertory Theatre production of "The Miracle Worker" to re-open the historic Palace Theatre (Manchester, New Hampshire). Burnham says among her most important college experiences were serving a 1974 summer internship in Copenhagen, Denmark, and representing the state again as Miss New Hampshire 1975 in the Miss America Pageant in Atlantic City, New Jersey. She graduated in 1976 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Marketing.  Career   While still in college, Martin traveled as soloist and public relations director for the “I Like the U.S. of A.” National Touring Company. She then served as a marketing rep, recruiting students for Boston's Burdett School. She continued recruiting at Southern New Hampshire University, where she also coached cheerleading, directed plays, and coordinated the tour guides.   In 1983 she hosted her first telethon for Easter Seals of New Hampshire, which led to her being hired by WMUR-TV (ABC) in Manchester, New Hampshire. As Special Projects Coordinator she produced and hosted a number of documentaries and television specials for the ABC affiliate, along with reporting and anchoring the nightly lifestyles and entertainment reports.   In 1987 she originated WMUR's “5:30 Live” on location news magazine program, before taking over the 6 and 11 o’clock anchor desk in 1988. By the time she left WMUR-TV in 1994, Martin had accumulated numerous NH Broadcasting Association awards for documentaries, specials, and news coverage as well as accolades as the State's favorite media personality. She also anchored at WABU-TV in Boston, Massachusetts, and managed the PEG community access station BCTV in Bedford, NH. Under her leadership, BCTV won its first awards from the Northeast Alliance for Community Media, capturing 6 awards for excellence, and topping other stations from New England, New York, and New Jersey.   A business speaker, Burnham's SpeakEasy 123™, involved corporate communications coaching and video production. The talent division also enabled her to resume her professional acting and voiceover endeavors.   In 1998, she was recognized as a contributing author of “The Communications Coach: Tips from the Pros,” which featured her “Taming the Media Monster.” By 2005 the book “A Healthier You” was published, featuring her “Healthy Thinking Habits” along with interviews from Billy Blanks and Deepak Chopra. Her first solo book was released in 2007. “Dog Days in the Life of the Miles-Mannered Man” was also released as an Audiobook in 2016. In 2017 Quiet Thunder Publishing released "The Bimbo Has Brains," Martin's life lessons book focused on stereotypes, double standards, and relationships.   Along with voiceover work, Cathy Burnham Martin continues to write books, along with articles for the GoodLiving123.com blog, which she has written since May, 2011.  References    1. ^ Calo, Jesus (17 Feb 2017). "Four Decades of Style: Kay's on the Beach". Coastal Breeze News. Retrieved 16 Oct 2017.  2. ^ "Milford – Local Authors Open House". Toadstool Bookshops. Retrieved 16 Oct 2017.  3. ^ "Audiobook Creation Exchange". ACX. Retrieved 29 Oct 2017.  4. ^ "Bring Home a Piece of the Palace Theatre this Holiday". 14 Dec 2014. Retrieved 29 Oct 2017.  5. ^ Diamond, Edwin (9 Mar 1992). Primary Source: Going National. New York Magazine. p. 16. Retrieved 30 Oct 2017.  6. ^ "Cathy Burnham Martin". Audible. Retrieved 5 Nov 2017.  7. ^ "Trademark Electronic Search System - KISS". United States Patent and Trademark Office. U.S. Government. Retrieved 5 Nov 2017.  8. ^ "Cathy Burnham Martin". Celebrity Talent Promotions. Retrieved 29 Oct 2017.  9. ^ "Cathy Burnham Martin Speaker". Speakerpedia. Retrieved 30 Oct 2017.  10. ^ "Goffstown". Town of Goffstown. Town of Goffstown. Retrieved 29 Oct 2017.  11. ^ "Co-Eds Pledge Sororities at Stetson University". Fort Walton Beach Daily News. 22 Sep 1972. Retrieved 29 Oct 2017.  12. ^ "Cathy Burnham - Goffstown High School Class of 1972". Goffstown High School. High School Network. Retrieved 29 Oct 2017.  13. ^ "Class of 1972". Goffstown High School. Old Friends. Retrieved 16 Oct 2017.  14. ^ "Distinguished Young Women Program". Distinguished Young Women. Retrieved 5 Nov 2017.  15. ^ "New Hampshire's Junior Miss". The Telegraph. 27 Nov 1972. Retrieved 29 Oct 2017.  16. ^ "N.H. Beauty Impressive at Miss America Pageant". The Telegraph. 5 Sep 1975. Retrieved 29 Oct 2017.  17. ^ "Stetson University". Stetson University. Retrieved 16 Oct 2017.  18. ^ "Cheerleaders Pose". Stetson University Archives. Retrieved 16 Oct 2017.  19. ^ Stetson Cupola (September 1973). "Kirschman to Head Alumni Homecoming Fete" (1). Stetson University. Retrieved 29 Oct 2017.  20. ^ "The History of SNHU". Southern New Hampshire University. Retrieved 29 Oct 2017.  21. ^ Huard, Jacqueline (18 Aug 1975). "Miss New Hampshire Discusses Coming Pageant". The Telegraph. Retrieved 30 Oct 2017.  22. ^ McQuaid, Katie (8 Mar 2015). "Pi, by any other name, just as sweet". The Union Leader.  23. ^ "Children's Theatre Auditions Slated to Select Bicentennial Touring Co". The Telegrph. 10 May 1975. Retrieved 29 Oct 2017.  24. ^ Resnick, Miles (2006). I've Got News for You (1 ed.). Xlibris Corporation. pp. 66, 67, 80. ISBN 978-1-4257-3204-2.  25. ^ Tierney, John (16 Jan 1992). "The 1992 Campaign: Media; Candidates Are on Call for Small TV Station". New York Times. Retrieved 29 Oct 2017.  26. ^ Kurtz, Howard (12 Feb 1992). "For New Hampshire Voters, Nowhere to Hide". The Washington Post. Retrieved 30 Oct 2017.  27. ^ Avard, Kevin (6 Jan 2015). "Gate City Chronicles". Nashua Public Access Television. Retrieved 29 Oct 2017.  28. ^ "Public-Access Television". Wikipedia. Retrieved 30 Oct 2017.  29. ^ "Public, Educational, and Governmental Public Access Channels". Federal Communications Commission. Retrieved 30 Oct 2017.  30. ^ Remillard, Kathy (16 May 2013). "BCTV has expanded from humble beginnings, now state of the art". Bedford Bulletin - Union Leader. Retrieved 30 Oct 2017.  31. ^ "BCTV-Bedford Community TV". BedfordNH. Town of Bedford, New Hampshire. Retrieved 30 Oct 2017.  32. ^ "Northeast Region". Northeast Alliance for Community Media. Retrieved 29 Oct 2017.  33. ^ Fisk, William H. "BCTV". Bedford Town Annual Report. Town of Bedford, NH. Missing or empty |url= (help); |access-date= requires |url= (help)  34. ^ "Easter Seals elects chairman, board members". New Hampshire Business Review. 14 Dec 2005. Retrieved 29 Oct 2017.  35. ^ "Quiet Thunder Publishing". Quiet Thunder Publishing. Retrieved 29 Oct 2017.  36. ^ "The Bimbo Has Brains… and Other Freaky Facts". Gibson's Bookstore. Retrieved 16 Oct 2017.  37. ^ Cousineau, Michael (13 Jun 2017). "In New Book Former Miss NH and WMUR-TV Anchor Opens Up about a Dark Chapter". The Union Leader. Retrieved 29 Oct 2017.  38. ^ McKenzie, Mitzi. "New Hampshire Author Cathy Burnham Martin's New Book "The Bimbo Has Brains" Blasts Stereotypes and Much More". PR Web. Page Publishing. Retrieved 16 Oct 2017.
A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view. Please discuss further on the talk page. (June 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)     Paulo CoelhoPaulo Coelho in 2008Born (1947-08-24) 24 August 1947 (age 71) Rio de Janeiro, BrazilOccupationNovelist, writer and lyricistLanguagePortugueseNationalityBrazilianGenreDrama, RomanceNotable worksO AlquimistaYears active1974–presentSpouseChristina OiticicaWebsitepaulocoelhoblog.com   Paulo Coelho de Souza (/ˈkwɛl.juː, kuˈɛl-, -joʊ/; Portuguese: [ˈpawlu kuˈeʎu]; born 24 August 1947) is a Brazilian lyricist and novelist. He is best known for his novel The Alchemist. In 2014, he uploaded his personal papers online to create a virtual Paulo Coelho Foundation.
A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view. Please discuss further on the talk page. (September 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)  (Learn how and when to remove this template message)   Ashly Lorenzana (born 1987) is a female sex worker, freelance writer and author of the autobiographical memoir titled Sex, Drugs & Being an Escort. Lorenzana currently resides in Portland, Oregon where she was born.
Amanda Lovelace is an American poet who was named Goodreads Poet of the Year. She is the author of The Princess Saves Herself In This One and The Witch Doesn't Burn In This One.  References    1. ^ PHAREL, PHANESIA (December 23, 2016). "An Interview With Goodreads Poet of the Year Amanda Lovelace". Affinity Magazine. Retrieved 2018-04-18.  2. ^ Miller, E. Ce. "Your Favorite Insta Poet Just Released A New Collection About Female Anger & It's A Must-Read". Bustle. Retrieved 19 April 2018.  3. ^ Griffin, Sakara (April 12, 2018). "Another spin on the princess fairy tale". Santa Fe New Mexican. Retrieved 19 April 2018.  4. ^ Miller, E. Ce. "15 Protest Poets You Should Be Reading This National Poetry Month". Bustle. Retrieved 19 April 2018.  5. ^ "It's time for you to give poetry another chance". Everett, Washington: HeraldNet. April 10, 2018. Retrieved 19 April 2018.  External links This article about an American writer is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
Amantine Lucile Aurore Dupin (French: [amɑ̃tin lysil oʁɔʁ dypɛ̃]; 1 July 1804 – 8 June 1876), best known by her nom de plume George Sand (French: [ʒɔʁʒ sɑ̃d]), was a French novelist, memoirist, and socialist.
American-born author Aberjhani (born July 8, 1957, in Savannah, Georgia) is a historian, columnist, novelist, poet, and editor. Although well known for his blog articles on literature and politics, he is perhaps best known as co-author of Encyclopedia of the Harlem Renaissance and author of The River of Winged Dreams. The encyclopedia won a Choice Academic Title Award in 2004.
Amie Kaufman is a New York Times bestselling and internationally bestselling Australian author of science fiction and fantasy for young adults. She is known for the Starbound Trilogy and Unearthed, which she co-authored with Meagan Spooner, for her series, The Illuminae Files, co-authored with Jay Kristoff, and for her solo series, Elementals. Her books have been published in over 35 countries.
Amish Tripathi (born 18 October 1974) is an Indian author, known for his novels The Immortals of Meluha, The Secret of the Nagas, The Oath of the Vayuputras, Scion of Ikshvaku and Sita: Warrior of Mithila. The first three books collectively comprise the Shiva Trilogy and the later two are the first two books of the Ram Chandra Series which is going to be a collection of five books. The Shiva Trilogy was the fastest selling book series in Indian publishing history. And the Ram Chandra Series was the second fastest selling book series in Indian publishing history. Amish recently launched his first non-fiction book called Immortal India.   Gautam Chikermane of Swarajya Magazine says "Amish’s influence goes beyond his books, his books go beyond literature, his literature is steeped in philosophy, which is anchored in bhakti, which powers his love for India".   All 6 books have sold over 4 million copies in the Indian subcontinent since 2010, with gross retail sales of Rs. 120 crores. Forbes India has ranked Amish among the top 100 celebrities in India in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2017. Amish was also selected as an Eisenhower Fellow, an exclusive programme for outstanding leaders from around the world.
Amor Towles (born 1964) is an American novelist. He is best known for his bestselling novels Rules of Civility (2011) and A Gentleman in Moscow (2016).
Amy Harmon (born September 17, 1968) is an American journalist. She won a Pulitzer Prize as a correspondent for The New York Times covering the impact of science and technology on everyday life. Harmon uses narrative storytelling to illuminate the human dilemmas posed by advances in science. In 2013, she was named a Guggenheim Fellow.
Amy Tan (born February 19, 1952) is an American writer whose works explore mother-daughter relationships and the Chinese American experience. Her novel The Joy Luck Club was adapted into a film in 1993 by director Wayne Wang.   Tan has written several other novels, including The Kitchen God's Wife, The Hundred Secret Senses, The Bonesetter's Daughter, Saving Fish from Drowning, and The Valley of Amazement. Tan's latest book is a memoir entitled Where The Past Begins: A Writer's Memoir (2017). In addition to these, Tan has written two children's books: The Moon Lady (1992) and Sagwa, the Chinese Siamese Cat (1994), which was turned into an animated series that aired on PBS.   Despite her success, Tan has also received substantial criticism for her depictions of Chinese culture and apparent adherence to stereotypes.
Anatole France (French: [anatɔl fʁɑ̃s]; born François-Anatole Thibault, [frɑ̃swa anatɔl tibo]; 16 April 1844 – 12 October 1924) was a French poet, journalist, and successful novelist with several best-sellers. Ironic and skeptical, he was considered in his day the ideal French man of letters. He was a member of the Académie française, and won the 1921 Nobel Prize in Literature "in recognition of his brilliant literary achievements, characterized as they are by a nobility of style, a profound human sympathy, grace, and a true Gallic temperament".   France is also widely believed to be the model for narrator Marcel's literary idol Bergotte in Marcel Proust's In Search of Lost Time.
André Aciman (/ɑːsiːmɑːn/; born 2 January 1951) is an American writer. Born and raised in Alexandria, Egypt, he is currently distinguished professor at the Graduate Center of City University of New York, where he teaches the history of literary theory and the works of Marcel Proust. Aciman previously taught creative writing at New York University and French literature at Princeton and Bard College.   In 2009, he was Visiting Distinguished Writer at Wesleyan University.   He is the author of several novels, including Call Me by Your Name (winner, in the Gay Fiction category, of the 2007 Lambda Literary Award) and a 1995 memoir, Out of Egypt, which won a Whiting Award.
Andrea Gibson (born August 13, 1975) is an American poet and activist from Calais, Maine, who has lived in Boulder, Colorado since 1999. Gibson's poetry focuses on gender norms, politics, social reform, and the struggles LGBTQ people face in today's society.
Andrzej Sapkowski (Polish pronunciation: [ˈandʐɛj sapˈkɔfskʲi]; born 21 June 1948) is a Polish fantasy writer. He is best known for his book series, The Witcher. His books have been translated into about 20 languages.
Andy Warhol (/ˈwɔːrhɒl/; born Andrew Warhola; August 6, 1928 – February 22, 1987) was an American artist, director and producer who was a leading figure in the visual art movement known as pop art. His works explore the relationship between artistic expression, celebrity culture, and advertising that flourished by the 1960s, and span a variety of media, including painting, silkscreening, photography, film, and sculpture. Some of his best known works include the silkscreen paintings Campbell's Soup Cans (1962) and Marilyn Diptych (1962), the experimental film Chelsea Girls (1966), and the multimedia events known as the Exploding Plastic Inevitable (1966–67).   Born and raised in Pittsburgh, Warhol initially pursued a successful career as a commercial illustrator. After exhibiting his work in several galleries in the late 1950s, he began to receive recognition as an influential and controversial artist. His New York studio, The Factory, became a well-known gathering place that brought together distinguished intellectuals, drag queens, playwrights, Bohemian street people, Hollywood celebrities, and wealthy patrons. He promoted a collection of personalities known as Warhol superstars, and is credited with coining the widely used expression "15 minutes of fame." In the late 1960s, he managed and produced the experimental rock band The Velvet Underground and founded Interview magazine. He authored numerous books, including The Philosophy of Andy Warhol and Popism: The Warhol Sixties. He lived openly as a gay man before the gay liberation movement. After gallbladder surgery, Warhol died of cardiac arrhythmia in February 1987 at the age of 58.   Warhol has been the subject of numerous retrospective exhibitions, books, and feature and documentary films. The Andy Warhol Museum in his native city of Pittsburgh, which holds an extensive permanent collection of art and archives, is the largest museum in the United States dedicated to a single artist. Many of his creations are very collectible and highly valuable. The highest price ever paid for a Warhol painting is US$105 million for a 1963 canvas titled Silver Car Crash (Double Disaster); his works include some of the most expensive paintings ever sold. A 2009 article in The Economist described Warhol as the "bellwether of the art market".
Angela Anaïs Juana Antolina Rosa Edelmira Nin y Culmell (February 21, 1903 – January 14, 1977), known professionally as Anaïs Nin (/ænə.iːs niːn/), was a French-American diarist, essayist, novelist, and writer of short stories and erotica. Born to Cuban parents in France, Nin was the daughter of composer Joaquín Nin and Rosa Culmell, a classically trained singer. Nin spent her early years in Spain and Cuba, about sixteen years in Paris (1924–1940), and the remaining half of her life in the United States, where she became an established author.   Beginning at age eleven, Nin wrote journals prolifically for six decades and even up until her death. Her journals, many of which were published during her lifetime, detail her private thoughts and personal relationships. Her journals also describe her marriage to Hugh Parker Guiler and bigamous marriage to Rupert Pole, in addition to her numerous affairs, including those with psychoanalyst Otto Rank and writer Henry Miller, both of whom profoundly influenced Nin and her writing.   In addition to her journals, Nin wrote several novels, critical studies, essays, short stories, and volumes of erotica. Much of her work, including the collections of erotica Delta of Venus and Little Birds, was published posthumously amid renewed critical interest in her life and work. Nin spent her later life in Los Angeles, California, where she died of cervical cancer in 1977.
Angela Olive Carter-Pearce (née Stalker; 7 May 1940 – 16 February 1992), who published under the pen name Angela Carter, was an English novelist, short story writer and journalist, known for her feminist, magical realism, and picaresque works. She is best known for her book The Bloody Chamber, which was published in 1979. In 2008, The Times ranked Carter tenth in their list of "The 50 greatest British writers since 1945". In 2012, Nights at the Circus was selected as the best ever winner of the James Tait Black Memorial Prize.
Anna Andreyevna Gorenko[Notes 1] (23 June [O.S. 11 June] 1889 – 5 March 1966), better known by the pen name Anna Akhmatova (/ɑːkˈmɑːtɔːvə/; Russian: Анна Ахматова, IPA: [ɐxˈmatəvə]), was one of the most significant Russian poets of the 20th century. She was shortlisted for the Nobel Prize in 1965 and received second-most (three) nominations for the award the following year.   Akhmatova's work ranges from short lyric poems to intricately structured cycles, such as Requiem (1935–40), her tragic masterpiece about the Stalinist terror. Her style, characterised by its economy and emotional restraint, was strikingly original and distinctive to her contemporaries. The strong and clear leading female voice struck a new chord in Russian poetry. Her writing can be said to fall into two periods – the early work (1912–25) and her later work (from around 1936 until her death), divided by a decade of reduced literary output.   Primary sources of information about Akhmatova's life are relatively scant, as war, revolution and the totalitarian regime caused much of the written record to be destroyed. For long periods she was in official disfavour and many of those who were close to her died in the aftermath of the revolution. Akhmatova's first husband, Nikolay Gumilyov, was executed by the Soviet secret police, and her son Lev Gumilyov and her common-law husband Nikolay Punin spent many years in the Gulag, where Punin died.
Anna Eleanor Roosevelt (/ˈɛlɪnɔːr ˈroʊzəvɛlt/; October 11, 1884 – November 7, 1962) was an American political figure, diplomat and activist. She served as the First Lady of the United States from March 1933 to April 1945 during her husband President Franklin D. Roosevelt's four terms in office, making her the longest serving First Lady of the United States. Roosevelt served as United States Delegate to the United Nations General Assembly from 1945 to 1952. President Harry S. Truman later called her the "First Lady of the World" in tribute to her human rights achievements.   Roosevelt was a member of the prominent American Roosevelt and Livingston families and a niece of President Theodore Roosevelt. She had an unhappy childhood, having suffered the deaths of both parents and one of her brothers at a young age. At 15, she attended Allenwood Academy in London and was deeply influenced by its headmistress Marie Souvestre. Returning to the U.S., she married her fifth cousin once removed, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, in 1905. The Roosevelts' marriage was complicated from the beginning by Franklin's controlling mother, Sara, and after Eleanor discovered her husband's affair with Lucy Mercer in 1918, she resolved to seek fulfillment in a public life of her own. She persuaded Franklin to stay in politics after he was stricken with a paralytic illness in 1921, which cost him the normal use of his legs, and began giving speeches and appearing at campaign events in his place. Following Franklin's election as Governor of New York in 1928, and throughout the remainder of Franklin's public career in government, Roosevelt regularly made public appearances on his behalf, and as First Lady while her husband served as President, she significantly reshaped and redefined the role of First Lady.   Though widely respected in her later years, Roosevelt was a controversial First Lady at the time for her outspokenness, particularly her stance on racial issues. She was the first presidential spouse to hold regular press conferences, write a daily newspaper column, write a monthly magazine column, host a weekly radio show, and speak at a national party convention. On a few occasions, she publicly disagreed with her husband's policies. She launched an experimental community at Arthurdale, West Virginia, for the families of unemployed miners, later widely regarded as a failure. She advocated for expanded roles for women in the workplace, the civil rights of African Americans and Asian Americans, and the rights of World War II refugees.   Following her husband's death in 1945, Roosevelt remained active in politics for the remaining 17 years of her life. She pressed the United States to join and support the United Nations and became its first delegate. She served as the first chair of the UN Commission on Human Rights and oversaw the drafting of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Later she chaired the John F. Kennedy administration's Presidential Commission on the Status of Women. By the time of her death, Roosevelt was regarded as "one of the most esteemed women in the world"; she was called "the object of almost universal respect" in her New York Times obituary. In 1999, she was ranked ninth in the top ten of Gallup's List of Most Widely Admired People of the 20th Century.
Anna Godbersen (born April 10, 1980) is an American writer. She is the author of the series The Luxe, with The Luxe, the first book in the series, being her debut novel. The first book in her new series, Bright Young Things, was released on October 12, 2010.
Ann Brashares (born July 30, 1967) is an American writer of young adult fiction. She is best known as the author of The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants series.
Anne Bishop is an American fantasy writer. Her most noted work is the Black Jewels series. She won the Crawford Award in 2000 for the first three Black Jewels books, sometimes called the Black Jewels trilogy: Daughter of the Blood, Heir to the Shadows, and Queen of the Darkness.
Anne Brontë (/ˈbrɒnti/, commonly /-teɪ/; 17 January 1820 – 28 May 1849) was an English novelist and poet, the youngest member of the Brontë literary family.   The daughter of Patrick Brontë, a poor Irish clergyman in the Church of England, Anne Brontë lived most of her life with her family at the parish of Haworth on the Yorkshire moors. She also attended a boarding school in Mirfield between 1836 and 1837. At 19 she left Haworth and worked as a governess between 1839 and 1845. After leaving her teaching position, she fulfilled her literary ambitions. She published a volume of poetry with her sisters (Poems by Currer, Ellis, and Acton Bell, 1846) and two novels. Agnes Grey, based upon her experiences as a governess, was published in 1847. Her second and last novel, The Tenant of Wildfell Hall, which is considered to be one of the first sustained feminist novels, appeared in 1848. Like her poems, both her novels were first published under the masculine pen name of Acton Bell. Anne's life was cut short when she died of what is now suspected to be pulmonary tuberculosis at the age of 29.   Partly because the re-publication of The Tenant of Wildfell Hall was prevented by Charlotte Brontë after Anne's death, she is not as well known as her sisters. However, her novels, like those of her sisters, have become classics of English literature.
Anne Carson (born June 21, 1950) is a Canadian poet, essayist, translator, and professor of Classics. Carson lived in Montreal for several years and taught at McGill University, the University of Michigan, and at Princeton University from 1980 to 1987. She was a 1998 Guggenheim Fellow, and in 2000 she was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship. She has also won a Lannan Literary Award.
Anne Lamott (born April 10, 1954) is an American novelist and non-fiction writer.   She is also a progressive political activist, public speaker, and writing teacher. Lamott is based in Marin County, California, her nonfiction works are largely autobiographical. Marked by their self-deprecating humor and openness, Lamott's writings cover such subjects as alcoholism, single-motherhood, depression, and Christianity.
Anne Rice (born October 4, 1941) is an American author of gothic fiction, Christian literature, and erotic literature. She is perhaps best known for her series of novels, The Vampire Chronicles, revolving around the central character of Lestat. Books from The Vampire Chronicles were the subject of two film adaptations, Interview with the Vampire in 1994, and Queen of the Damned in 2002.   Born in New Orleans, Rice spent much of her early life there before moving to Texas, and later to San Francisco. She was raised in an observant Catholic family, but became an agnostic as a young adult. She began her professional writing career with the publication of Interview with the Vampire in 1976, while living in California, and began writing sequels to the novel in the 1980s. In the mid-2000s, following a publicized return to Catholicism, Rice published the novels Christ the Lord: Out of Egypt and Christ the Lord: The Road to Cana, fictionalized accounts of certain incidents in the life of Jesus. Several years later she distanced herself from organized Christianity, citing disagreement with the Church's stances on social issues but pledging that faith in God remained "central to  life." However, she now considers herself a secular humanist.   Rice's books have sold nearly 100 million copies, placing her among the most popular authors in recent American history. While reaction to her early works was initially mixed, she became more popular with critics and readers in the 1980s. Her writing style and the literary content of her works have been deeply analyzed by literary commentators. She was married to poet and painter Stan Rice for 41 years, from 1961 until his death from brain cancer in 2002 at age 60. She and Stan had two children, Michele, who died of leukemia at age five, and Christopher, who is also an author.   In addition to her vampire novels, Rice has authored books such as The Feast of All Saints (adapted for television in 2001) and Servant of the Bones, which formed the basis of a 2011 comic book miniseries. Several books from The Vampire Chronicles have been adapted as comics and manga by various publishers. Rice has also authored erotic fiction under the pen names Anne Rampling and A. N. Roquelaure, including Exit to Eden, which was later adapted into a 1994 film.
Anne Sexton (November 9, 1928 – October 4, 1974) was an American poet, known for her highly personal, confessional verse. She won the Pulitzer Prize for poetry in 1967 for her book Live or Die. Her poetry details her long battle with depression, suicidal tendencies, and various intimate details from her private life, including relationships with her husband and children whom it was later revealed she physically and sexually assaulted.
Anne Tyler (born October 25, 1941) is an American novelist, short story writer, and literary critic. She has published 22 novels, the best known of which are Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant (1982), The Accidental Tourist (1985), and Breathing Lessons (1988). All three were finalists for the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction with Breathing Lessons winning the prize in 1989. She has also won the Janet Heidinger Kafka Prize, the Ambassador Book Award, and the National Book Critics Circle Award. In 2012 she was awarded The Sunday Times Award for Literary Excellence. Tyler's twentieth novel, A Spool of Blue Thread, was shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize in 2015. She is recognized for her fully developed characters, her "brilliantly imagined and absolutely accurate detail," and her "rigorous and artful style" and "astute and open language."   Tyler has been compared to John Updike, to Jane Austen, and to Eudora Welty, among others.
Annie Dillard (born April 30, 1945) is an American author, best known for her narrative prose in both fiction and non-fiction. She has published works of poetry, essays, prose, and literary criticism, as well as two novels and one memoir. Her 1974 work Pilgrim at Tinker Creek won the 1975 Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction. From 1980, Dillard taught for 21 years in the English department of Wesleyan University, in Middletown, Connecticut.
Ann Voskamp (born August 10, 1973) is the author  of the New York Times Bestseller, One Thousand Gifts: A Dare to Live Fully Right Where You Are, published by Zondervan.
Anthony Doerr (born October 27, 1973) is an American author of novels and short stories. He gained widespread recognition for his 2014 novel All the Light We Cannot See, which won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction.
Anthony Horowitz, OBE (born 5 April 1955) is an English novelist and screenwriter specialising in mystery and suspense. His work for young adult readers includes The Diamond Brothers series, the Alex Rider series, and The Power of Five series (a.k.a. The Gatekeepers).   His work for adults includes the play Mindgame (2001); two Sherlock Holmes novels The House of Silk (2011) and Moriarty (2014); Magpie Murders (2016) and The Word Is Murder (2017). He was also chosen to write James Bond novels by the Ian Fleming estate, starting with Trigger Mortis (2015).   He has also written for television, contributing scripts to ITV's Agatha Christie's Poirot and Midsomer Murders. He was the creator and writer of the ITV series Foyle's War, Collision and Injustice and the BBC series New Blood.
Anthony Trollope (/ˈtrɒləp/; 24 April 1815 – 6 December 1882) was an English novelist of the Victorian era. Among his best-known works is a series of novels collectively known as the Chronicles of Barsetshire, which revolves around the imaginary county of Barsetshire. He also wrote novels on political, social, and gender issues, and other topical matters.   Trollope's literary reputation dipped somewhat during the last years of his life, but he had regained the esteem of critics by the mid-20th century.
Apocrypha are works, usually written, of unknown authorship or of doubtful origin. Biblical apocrypha is a set of texts included in the Latin Vulgate and Septuagint but not in the Hebrew Bible. While Catholic tradition considers some of these texts to be deuterocanonical, Protestants consider them apocryphal. Thus, Protestant bibles do not include the books within the Old Testament but have often included them in a separate section. Other non-canonical apocryphal texts are generally called pseudepigrapha, a term that means "false writings".   The word's origin is the Medieval Latin adjective apocryphus, "secret, or non-canonical", from the Greek adjective ἀπόκρυφος (apokryphos), "obscure", from the verb ἀποκρύπτειν (apokryptein), "to hide away".
Aristotle (/ˈærɪˌstɒtəl/; Greek: Ἀριστοτέλης Aristotélēs, pronounced [aristotélɛːs]; 384–322 BC)[n 1] was an ancient Greek philosopher and scientist born in the city of Stagira, Chalkidiki, in the north of Classical Greece. Along with Plato, he is considered the "Father of Western Philosophy". Aristotle provided a complex and harmonious synthesis of the various existing philosophies prior to him, including those of Socrates and Plato, and it was above all from his teachings that the West inherited its fundamental intellectual lexicon, as well as problems and methods of inquiry. As a result, his philosophy has exerted a unique influence on almost every form of knowledge in the West and it continues to be central to the contemporary philosophical discussion.   Little is known about his life. His father, Nicomachus, died when Aristotle was a child, and he was brought up by a guardian. At seventeen or eighteen years of age, he joined Plato's Academy in Athens and remained there until the age of thirty-seven (c. 347 BC). His writings cover many subjects – including physics, biology, zoology, metaphysics, logic, ethics, aesthetics, poetry, theatre, music, rhetoric, psychology, linguistics, economics, politics and government – and constitute the first comprehensive system of Western philosophy. Shortly after Plato died, Aristotle left Athens and, at the request of Philip II of Macedon, tutored Alexander the Great beginning in 343 BC. Teaching Alexander gave Aristotle many opportunities. He established a library in the Lyceum which helped him to produce many of his hundreds of books, which were papyrus scrolls. The fact that Aristotle was a pupil of Plato contributed to his former views of Platonism, but, following Plato's death, Aristotle immersed himself in empirical studies and shifted from Platonism to empiricism. He believed all concepts and knowledge were ultimately based on perception. Aristotle's views on natural sciences represent the groundwork underlying many of his works.   Aristotle's views on physical science profoundly shaped medieval scholarship. Their influence extended from Late Antiquity and the Early Middle Ages into the Renaissance, and were not replaced systematically until the Enlightenment and theories such as classical mechanics. Some of Aristotle's zoological observations, such as on the hectocotyl (reproductive) arm of the octopus, were disbelieved until the 19th century. His works contain the earliest known formal study of logic, studied by medieval scholars such as Peter Abelard and John Buridan. Aristotelianism profoundly influenced Islamic thought during the Middle Ages, as well as Christian theology, especially the Neoplatonism of the Early Church and the scholastic tradition of the Catholic Church. Aristotle was revered among medieval Muslim scholars as "The First Teacher". His ethics, though always influential, gained renewed interest with the modern advent of virtue ethics.   All aspects of Aristotle's philosophy continue to be the object of academic study. Though Aristotle wrote many elegant treatises and dialogues for publication, only around a third of his original output has survived, none of it intended for publication. Aristotle has been depicted by major artists including Raphael and Rembrandt. Early Modern theories including William Harvey's circulation of the blood and Galileo Galilei's kinematics were developed in reaction to Aristotle's. In the 19th century, George Boole gave Aristotle's logic a mathematical foundation with his system of algebraic logic. In the 20th century, Martin Heidegger created a new interpretation of Aristotle's political philosophy, but elsewhere Aristotle was widely criticised, even ridiculed by thinkers such as the philosopher Bertrand Russell and the biologist Peter Medawar. More recently, Aristotle has again been taken seriously, such as in the thinking of Ayn Rand and Alasdair MacIntyre, while Armand Marie Leroi has reconstructed Aristotle's biology. The image of Aristotle tutoring the young Alexander remains current, and the Poetics continues to play a role in the cinema of the United States.
Arthur Koestler, CBE (UK: /ˈkɜːstlər/, US: /ˈkɛst-/; German: [ˈkœstlɐ]; Hungarian: Kösztler Artúr; 5 September 1905 – 1 March 1983) was a Hungarian-British author and journalist. Koestler was born in Budapest and, apart from his early school years, was educated in Austria. In 1931 Koestler joined the Communist Party of Germany until, disillusioned by Stalinism, he resigned in 1938. In 1940 he published his novel Darkness at Noon, an anti-totalitarian work that gained him international fame. Over the next 43 years, from his residence in Britain, Koestler espoused many political causes, and wrote novels, memoirs, biographies and numerous essays. In 1968 he was awarded the Sonning Prize "for  outstanding contribution to European culture" and in 1972 he was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE). In 1976 he was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease and in 1979 with terminal leukaemia. In 1983 he and his wife committed suicide at their home in London.
Arthur Schopenhauer (/ˈʃoʊpənhaʊ.ər/ SHOH-pən-how-ər; German: [ˈʔaɐ̯tʊɐ̯ ˈʃoːpm̩ˌhaʊ̯ɐ]; 22 February 1788 – 21 September 1860) was a German philosopher. He is best known for his 1818 work The World as Will and Representation (expanded in 1844), wherein he characterizes the phenomenal world as the product of a blind and insatiable metaphysical will. Proceeding from the transcendental idealism of Immanuel Kant, Schopenhauer developed an atheistic metaphysical and ethical system that has been described as an exemplary manifestation of philosophical pessimism, rejecting the contemporaneous post-Kantian philosophies of German idealism. Schopenhauer was among the first thinkers in Western philosophy to share and affirm significant tenets of Eastern philosophy (e.g., asceticism, the world-as-appearance), having initially arrived at similar conclusions as the result of his own philosophical work.   Though his work failed to garner substantial attention during his life, Schopenhauer has had a posthumous impact across various disciplines, including philosophy, literature, and science. His writing on aesthetics, morality, and psychology influenced thinkers and artists throughout the 19th and 20th centuries. Those who cited his influence include Friedrich Nietzsche, Richard Wagner, Leo Tolstoy, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Erwin Schrödinger, Otto Rank, Gustav Mahler, Joseph Campbell, Albert Einstein, Carl Jung, Thomas Mann, Émile Zola, George Bernard Shaw, Jorge Luis Borges and Samuel Beckett.
Audre Lorde (/ˈɔːdri lɔːrd/; born Audrey Geraldine Lorde; February 18, 1934 – November 17, 1992) was an American writer, feminist, womanist, librarian, and civil rights activist. As a poet, she is best known for technical mastery and emotional expression, as well as her poems that express anger and outrage at civil and social injustices she observed throughout her life. Her poems and prose largely deal with issues related to civil rights, feminism, and the exploration of black female identity.   In relation to non-intersectional feminism in the United States, Lorde famously said, "those of us who stand outside the circle of this society's definition of acceptable women; those of us who have been forged in the crucibles of difference – those of us who are poor, who are lesbians, who are Black, who are older – know that survival is not an academic skill. It is learning how to take our differences and make them strengths. For the master's tools will never dismantle the master's house. They may allow us temporarily to beat him at his own game, but they will never enable us to bring about genuine change. And this fact is only threatening to those women who still define the master's house as their only source of support."
Audrey Hepburn (born Audrey Kathleen Ruston; 4 May 1929 – 20 January 1993) was a British actress, model, dancer and humanitarian. Recognised as a film and fashion icon, Hepburn was active during Hollywood's Golden Age. She was ranked by the American Film Institute as the third-greatest female screen legend in Golden Age Hollywood, and was inducted into the International Best Dressed List Hall of Fame.   Born in Ixelles, Brussels, Hepburn spent her childhood between Belgium, England, and the Netherlands. In Amsterdam, she studied ballet with Sonia Gaskell, before moving to London in 1948, continuing her ballet training with Marie Rambert, and then performing as a chorus girl in West End musical theatre productions. Following minor appearances in several films, Hepburn starred in the 1951 Broadway play Gigi, after being spotted by French novelist Colette, on whose work the play was based.   She shot to stardom after playing the lead role in Roman Holiday (1953), for which she was the first actress to win an Academy Award, a Golden Globe Award, and a BAFTA Award for a single performance. That same year, Hepburn won a Tony Award for Best Lead Actress in a Play for her performance in Ondine. She went on to star in a number of successful films, such as Sabrina (1954), The Nun's Story (1959), Breakfast at Tiffany's (1961), Charade (1963), My Fair Lady (1964), and Wait Until Dark (1967), for which she received an Academy Award, Golden Globe, and BAFTA nominations. Hepburn won three BAFTA Awards for Best British Actress in a Leading Role. In recognition of her film career, she was awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award from BAFTA, the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award, the Screen Actors Guild Life Achievement Award, and the Special Tony Award. She remains one of only 15 people who have won Academy, Emmy, Grammy, and Tony Awards.   Hepburn appeared in fewer films as her life went on, devoting much of her later life to UNICEF. She had contributed to the organisation since 1954, then worked in some of the poorest communities of Africa, South America and Asia between 1988 and 1992. She was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in recognition of her work as a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador in December 1992. A month later, Hepburn died of appendiceal cancer at her home in Switzerland at the age of 63.
Avram Noam Chomsky (born December 7, 1928) is an American linguist, philosopher, cognitive scientist, historian, political activist, and social critic. Sometimes called "the father of modern linguistics", Chomsky is also a major figure in analytic philosophy and one of the founders of the field of cognitive science. He holds a joint appointment as Institute Professor Emeritus at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and laureate professor at the University of Arizona, and is the author of over 100 books on topics such as linguistics, war, politics, and mass media. Ideologically, he aligns with anarcho-syndicalism and libertarian socialism.   Born to middle-class Ashkenazi Jewish immigrants in Philadelphia, Chomsky developed an early interest in anarchism from alternative bookstores in New York City. He began studying at the University of Pennsylvania at age 16, taking courses in linguistics, mathematics, and philosophy. From 1951 to 1955, he was appointed to Harvard University's Society of Fellows. While at Harvard, he developed the theory of transformational grammar; for this, he was awarded his doctorate in 1955. Chomsky began teaching at MIT in 1957 and emerged as a significant figure in the field of linguistics for his landmark work Syntactic Structures, which remodelled the scientific study of language. From 1958 to 1959, he was a National Science Foundation fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study. Chomsky is credited as the creator or co-creator of the universal grammar theory, the generative grammar theory, the Chomsky hierarchy, and the minimalist program. He also played a pivotal role in the decline of behaviorism, being particularly critical of the work of B. F. Skinner.   Chomsky vocally opposed U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War, believing the war to be an act of American imperialism. In 1967, he attracted widespread public attention for his antiwar essay "The Responsibility of Intellectuals". Associated with the New Left, he was arrested multiple times for his activism and was placed on Richard Nixon's Enemies List. While expanding his work in linguistics over subsequent decades, he also became involved in the Linguistics Wars. In collaboration with Edward S. Herman, Chomsky later co-wrote Manufacturing Consent: The Political Economy of the Mass Media, which articulated the propaganda model of media criticism and worked to expose the Indonesian occupation of East Timor. Additionally, his defense of freedom of speech—including free speech for Holocaust deniers—generated significant controversy in the Faurisson affair of the early 1980s. Since retiring from active teaching, Chomsky has continued his vocal political activism by opposing the War on Terror and supporting the Occupy Movement.   One of the most cited scholars in history, Chomsky has influenced a broad array of academic fields. He is widely recognized as a paradigm shifter who helped spark a major revolution in the human sciences, contributing to the development of a new cognitivistic framework for the study of language and the mind. In addition to his continued scholarly research, he remains a leading critic of U.S. foreign policy, neoliberalism and contemporary state capitalism, the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, and mainstream news media. His ideas have proved highly significant within the anti-capitalist and anti-imperialist movements. Some of his critics have accused him of anti-Americanism.
Ayn Rand (/aɪn/; born Alisa Zinovyevna Rosenbaum; February 2 [O.S. January 20] 1905 – March 6, 1982) was a Russian-American writer and philosopher. She is known for her two best-selling novels, The Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged, and for developing a philosophical system she named Objectivism. Educated in Russia, she moved to the United States in 1926. She had a play produced on Broadway in 1935 and 1936. After two early novels that were initially unsuccessful, she achieved fame with her 1943 novel, The Fountainhead. In 1957, Rand published her best-known work, the novel Atlas Shrugged. Afterward, she turned to non-fiction to promote her philosophy, publishing her own periodicals and releasing several collections of essays until her death in 1982.   Rand advocated reason as the only means of acquiring knowledge and rejected faith and religion. She supported rational and ethical egoism and rejected altruism. In politics, she condemned the initiation of force as immoral and opposed collectivism and statism as well as anarchism, instead supporting laissez-faire capitalism, which she defined as the system based on recognizing individual rights, including property rights. In art, Rand promoted romantic realism. She was sharply critical of most philosophers and philosophical traditions known to her, except for Aristotle, Thomas Aquinas and classical liberals.   Literary critics received Rand's fiction with mixed reviews and academia generally ignored or rejected her philosophy, though academic interest has increased in recent decades. The Objectivist movement attempts to spread her ideas, both to the public and in academic settings. She has been a significant influence among libertarians and American conservatives.
Azar Nafisi (Persian: آذر نفیسی‎; born 1948)[Notes 1] is an Iranian writer and professor of English literature. She has resided in the United States since 1997 and became an American citizen in 2008.   Nafisi has been a visiting fellow and lecturer at the Foreign Policy Institute of Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) and served on the Board of Trustees of Freedom House. She is the niece of famous Iranian scholar, fiction writer and poet Saeed Nafisi. Azar Nafisi is best known for her 2003 book Reading Lolita in Tehran: A Memoir in Books, which remained on the New York Times Bestseller list for 117 weeks, and has won several literary awards, including the 2004 Non-fiction Book of the Year Award from Booksense.   Since Reading Lolita in Tehran, Nafisi has written Things I've Been Silent About: Memories of a Prodigal Daughter and The Republic of Imagination: America in Three Books.
Banana Yoshimoto (吉本 ばなな, Yoshimoto Banana) (born 24 July 1964) is the pen name of Japanese writer Mahoko Yoshimoto (吉本 真秀子, Yoshimoto Mahoko). From 2002 to 2015, she wrote her name in hiragana (よしもと ばなな).
Barbara Delinsky (born August 8, 1945, in Boston, Massachusetts, U.S. as Barbara Ruth Greenberg.) is an American writer of romance novels, including 19 New York Times bestsellers. She has also been published under the pen names Bonnie Drake and Billie Douglass.
Barbara Kingsolver (born April 8, 1955) is an American novelist, essayist and poet. She was raised in rural Kentucky and lived briefly in the Congo in her early childhood. Kingsolver earned degrees in biology at DePauw University and the University of Arizona and worked as a freelance writer before she began writing novels. Her widely known works include The Poisonwood Bible, the tale of a missionary family in the Congo, and Animal, Vegetable, Miracle, a non-fiction account of her family's attempts to eat locally.   Her work often focuses on topics such as social justice, biodiversity and the interaction between humans and their communities and environments. Each of her books published since 1993 has been on the New York Times Best Seller list. Kingsolver has received numerous awards, including the Dayton Literary Peace Prize's Richard C. Holbrooke Distinguished Achievement Award 2011, UK's Orange Prize for Fiction 2010, for The Lacuna, and the National Humanities Medal. She has been nominated for the PEN/Faulkner Award and the Pulitzer Prize.   In 2000, Kingsolver established the Bellwether Prize to support "literature of social change".
Baruch Spinoza (/bəˈruːk spɪˈnoʊzə/; Dutch: [baːˈrux spɪˈnoːzaː]; born Benedito de Espinosa, Portuguese: [bɨnɨˈðitu ðɨ ʃpiˈnɔzɐ]; 24 November 1632 – 21 February 1677, later Benedict de Spinoza) was a Jewish-Dutch philosopher of Portuguese Sephardi origin. By laying the groundwork for the Enlightenment and modern biblical criticism, including modern conceptions of the self and the universe, he came to be considered one of the great rationalists of 17th-century philosophy. Along with René Descartes, Spinoza was a leading philosophical figure of the Dutch Golden Age. Spinoza's given name, which means "Blessed", varies among different languages. In Hebrew, it is written ברוך שפינוזה‬. His Portuguese name is Benedito "Bento" de Espinosa or d'Espinosa. In his Latin works, he used Latin: Benedictus de Spinoza.   Spinoza was raised in a Portuguese-Jewish community in Amsterdam. He developed highly controversial ideas regarding the authenticity of the Hebrew Bible and the nature of the Divine. Jewish religious authorities issued a herem (חרם‬) against him, causing him to be effectively shunned by Jewish society at age 23. His books were also later put on the Catholic Church's Index of Forbidden Books.   Spinoza lived an outwardly simple life as an optical lens grinder, collaborating on microscope and telescope lens designs with Constantijn and Christiaan Huygens. He turned down rewards and honours throughout his life, including prestigious teaching positions. He died at the age of 44 in 1677 from a lung illness, perhaps tuberculosis or silicosis exacerbated by the inhalation of fine glass dust while grinding lenses. He is buried in the churchyard of the Christian Nieuwe Kerk in The Hague.   Spinoza's magnum opus, the Ethics, was published posthumously in the year of his death. The work opposed Descartes' philosophy of mind–body dualism, and earned Spinoza recognition as one of Western philosophy's most important thinkers. In it, "Spinoza wrote the last indisputable Latin masterpiece, and one in which the refined conceptions of medieval philosophy are finally turned against themselves and destroyed entirely". Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel said, "The fact is that Spinoza is made a testing-point in modern philosophy, so that it may really be said: You are either a Spinozist or not a philosopher at all." His philosophical accomplishments and moral character prompted Gilles Deleuze to name him "the 'prince' of philosophers."
Becca Fitzpatrick (born February 3, 1979) is an American author, best known for having written the New York Times bestseller Hush, Hush.   Raised in North Platte, Nebraska, she graduated in April 2001 from Brigham Young University with a degree in Community Health, and went to work as a secretary, teacher, and accountant at an alternative high school in Provo.   In February 2003, her husband enrolled her in a writing class for her 24th birthday. It was in that class that Fitzpatrick started writing Hush, Hush.   Fitzpatrick is a Latter-day Saint.
Ben Goertzel (born December 8, 1966) is the founder and CEO of SingularityNET, a blockchain-based AI marketplace. Goertzel is also the chief scientist of financial prediction firm Aidyia Holdings and robotics firm Hanson Robotics; chairman of AI software company Novamente LLC, a privately held software company; chairman of the Artificial General Intelligence Society and the OpenCog Foundation; vice chairman of futurist nonprofit Humanity+; scientific advisor of biopharma firm Genescient Corp.; advisor to Singularity University; research professor in the Fujian Key Lab for Brain-Like Intelligent Systems at Xiamen University of Technology, China; chair of the Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) conference series, and an American author and researcher in the field of artificial intelligence. He was the Director of Research of the Machine Intelligence Research Institute (formerly the Singularity Institute).   Goertzel is the son of Ted Goertzel, a former professor of sociology at Rutgers University. He left high school after the tenth grade to attend Bard College at Simon's Rock, where he graduated with a bachelor's degree in Quantitative Studies. Goertzel went on to obtain a Ph.D. in mathematics from Temple University in 1989. He is the Chief Scientist of Hanson Robotics, the creator of the robot Sophia.
Benjamin Alire Sáenz (born August 16, 1954) is an American poet, novelist and writer of children's books.
Benjamin Disraeli, 1st Earl of Beaconsfield, KG, PC, FRS (21 December 1804 – 19 April 1881) was a British statesman who twice served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. He played a central role in the creation of the modern Conservative Party, defining its policies and its broad outreach. Disraeli is remembered for his influential voice in world affairs, his political battles with the Liberal Party leader William Ewart Gladstone, and his one-nation conservatism or "Tory democracy". He made the Conservatives the party most identified with the glory and power of the British Empire. He is the only British Prime Minister to have been Jewish by birth and the first person from an ethnic minority background to hold one of the Great Offices of State. He was also a novelist, publishing works of fiction even as Prime Minister.   Disraeli was born in Bloomsbury, then a part of Middlesex. His father left Judaism after a dispute at his synagogue; young Benjamin became an Anglican at age 12.   After several unsuccessful attempts, Disraeli entered the House of Commons in 1837. In 1846, Prime Minister Robert Peel split the Conservatives over his proposal to repeal the Corn Laws, which involved ending the tariff on imported grain. As a result of his clashes with Peel in the House of Commons, Disraeli became a major Tory figure. When Lord Derby, the party leader, thrice formed governments in the 1850s and 1860s, Disraeli served as Chancellor of the Exchequer and Leader of the House of Commons.   Upon Derby's retirement in 1868, Disraeli became prime minister briefly before losing that year's general election. He returned to opposition until the general election of 1874, when he led the Tories as they won an outright majority.   Disraeli's second term was dominated by the Eastern Question—the slow decay of the Ottoman Empire and the desire of other European powers, such as Russia, to gain at its expense. Disraeli arranged for the British to purchase a major interest in the Suez Canal Company (in Ottoman-controlled Egypt). In 1878, faced with Russian victories against the Ottomans, he worked at the Congress of Berlin to obtain peace in the Balkans at terms favourable to Britain and unfavourable to Russia, its longstanding enemy. This diplomatic victory established Disraeli as one of Europe's leading statesmen.   World events thereafter moved against the Conservatives. The Second Anglo-Afghan War and the Anglo-Zulu War in South Africa undermined his public support. He angered British farmers by refusing to reinstitute the Corn Laws in response to poor harvests and cheap imported grain. With Gladstone conducting a massive speaking campaign, his Liberals bested the Conservatives at the 1880 general election.   Disraeli died on 19 April 1881 at the age of 76. In his final months, he led the Conservatives in opposition. He had always maintained a close friendship with Queen Victoria, who in 1876 appointed him Earl of Beaconsfield. His last completed novel, Endymion, was published in 1881 shortly before his death, more than 50 years after his first.
Benjamin Franklin FRS FRSE (January 17, 1706 [O.S. January 6, 1705] – April 17, 1790) was an American polymath and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. Franklin was a leading author, printer, political theorist, politician, freemason, postmaster, scientist, inventor, humorist, civic activist, statesman, and diplomat. As a scientist, he was a major figure in the American Enlightenment and the history of physics for his discoveries and theories regarding electricity. As an inventor, he is known for the lightning rod, bifocals, and the Franklin stove, among other inventions. He founded many civic organizations, including the Library Company, Philadelphia's first fire department and the University of Pennsylvania.   Franklin earned the title of "The First American" for his early and indefatigable campaigning for colonial unity, initially as an author and spokesman in London for several colonies. As the first United States Ambassador to France, he exemplified the emerging American nation. Franklin was foundational in defining the American ethos as a marriage of the practical values of thrift, hard work, education, community spirit, self-governing institutions, and opposition to authoritarianism both political and religious, with the scientific and tolerant values of the Enlightenment. In the words of historian Henry Steele Commager, "In a Franklin could be merged the virtues of Puritanism without its defects, the illumination of the Enlightenment without its heat." To Walter Isaacson, this makes Franklin "the most accomplished American of his age and the most influential in inventing the type of society America would become."   Franklin became a successful newspaper editor and printer in Philadelphia, the leading city in the colonies, publishing the Pennsylvania Gazette at the age of 23. He became wealthy publishing this and Poor Richard's Almanack, which he authored under the pseudonym "Richard Saunders". After 1767, he was associated with the Pennsylvania Chronicle, a newspaper that was known for its revolutionary sentiments and criticisms of British policies.   He pioneered and was first president of Academy and College of Philadelphia which opened in 1751 and later became the University of Pennsylvania. He organized and was the first secretary of the American Philosophical Society and was elected president in 1769. Franklin became a national hero in America as an agent for several colonies when he spearheaded an effort in London to have the Parliament of Great Britain repeal the unpopular Stamp Act. An accomplished diplomat, he was widely admired among the French as American minister to Paris and was a major figure in the development of positive Franco-American relations. His efforts proved vital for the American Revolution in securing shipments of crucial munitions from France.   He was promoted to deputy postmaster-general for the British colonies in 1753, having been Philadelphia postmaster for many years, and this enabled him to set up the first national communications network. During the revolution, he became the first United States Postmaster General. He was active in community affairs and colonial and state politics, as well as national and international affairs. From 1785 to 1788, he served as governor of Pennsylvania. He initially owned and dealt in slaves but, by the 1750s, he argued against slavery from an economic perspective and became one of the most prominent abolitionists.   His colorful life and legacy of scientific and political achievement, and his status as one of America's most influential Founding Fathers, have seen Franklin honored more than two centuries after his death on coinage and the $100 bill, warships, and the names of many towns, counties, educational institutions, and corporations, as well as countless cultural references.
Bernard Cornwell, OBE (born 23 February 1944) is an English author of historical novels and a history of the Waterloo Campaign. He is best known for his novels about Napoleonic Wars rifleman Richard Sharpe. He has written historical novels primarily on English history in five series, and one series of contemporary thriller novels. A feature of his historical novels is an end note on how they match or differ from history, and what one might see at the modern site of the battles described. One series is set in the American Civil War. He wrote a nonfiction book on the battle of Waterloo, in addition to the fictional story of the famous battle in the Sharpe Series. Two of the historical novel series have been adapted for television: the Sharpe television series by ITV and The Last Kingdom by BBC. He lives in the US with his wife, alternating between Cape Cod, Massachusetts and Charleston, South Carolina.
Bernhard Schlink (born 6 July 1944 in Bielefeld) is a German lawyer, academic, and novellist. He is best known for his novel The Reader which was first published in 1995 and became an international bestseller.
Beth Revis is an American author of fantasy and science fiction, mainly for the young adult audience. She is best known for the Across the Universe trilogy, which consists of the novels Across the Universe, A Million Suns and Shades of Earth. Revis resides in North Carolina.
Betty Smith (December 15, 1896 – January 17, 1972) was an American author. She is best known for her 1943 novel A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, which became an immediate bestseller and is now considered one of the great American novels of the 20th century. The book was later adapted to the screen in the movie of the same title, directed by Elia Kazan, and starring Dorothy McGuire, Joan Blondell, James Dunn and Peggy Ann Garner.
Blaise Pascal (/pæˈskæl, pɑːˈskɑːl/; French: [blɛz paskal]; 19 June 1623 – 19 August 1662) was a French mathematician, physicist, inventor, writer and Catholic theologian. He was a child prodigy who was educated by his father, a tax collector in Rouen. Pascal's earliest work was in the natural and applied sciences where he made important contributions to the study of fluids, and clarified the concepts of pressure and vacuum by generalising the work of Evangelista Torricelli. Pascal also wrote in defence of the scientific method.   In 1642, while still a teenager, he started some pioneering work on calculating machines. After three years of effort and 50 prototypes, he built 20 finished machines (called Pascal's calculators and later Pascalines) over the following 10 years, establishing him as one of the first two inventors of the mechanical calculator.   Pascal was an important mathematician, helping create two major new areas of research: he wrote a significant treatise on the subject of projective geometry at the age of 16, and later corresponded with Pierre de Fermat on probability theory, strongly influencing the development of modern economics and social science. Following Galileo Galilei and Torricelli, in 1647, he rebutted Aristotle's followers who insisted that nature abhors a vacuum. Pascal's results caused many disputes before being accepted.   In 1646, he and his sister Jacqueline identified with the religious movement within Catholicism known by its detractors as Jansenism. Following a religious experience in late 1654, he began writing influential works on philosophy and theology. His two most famous works date from this period: the Lettres provinciales and the Pensées, the former set in the conflict between Jansenists and Jesuits. In that year, he also wrote an important treatise on the arithmetical triangle. Between 1658 and 1659, he wrote on the cycloid and its use in calculating the volume of solids.   Throughout his life, Pascal was in frail health, especially after the age of 18; he died just two months after his 39th birthday.
Bodhidharma  was a Buddhist monk who lived during the 5th or 6th century. He is traditionally credited as the transmitter of Chan Buddhism to China, and regarded as its first Chinese patriarch. According to Chinese legend, he also began the physical training of the monks of Shaolin Monastery that led to the creation of Shaolin kungfu. In Japan, he is known as Daruma.   Little contemporary biographical information on Bodhidharma is extant, and subsequent accounts became layered with legend and unreliable details.   According to the principal Chinese sources, Bodhidharma came from the Western Regions, which refers to Central Asia but may also include the Indian subcontinent, and was either a "Persian Central Asian" or a "South Indian [...] the third son of a great Indian king." Throughout Buddhist art, Bodhidharma is depicted as an ill-tempered, profusely-bearded, wide-eyed non-Chinese person. He is referred as "The Blue-Eyed Barbarian" (Chinese: 碧眼胡; pinyin: Bìyǎnhú) in Chan texts.   Aside from the Chinese accounts, several popular traditions also exist regarding Bodhidharma's origins.   The accounts also differ on the date of his arrival, with one early account claiming that he arrived during the Liu Song dynasty (420–479) and later accounts dating his arrival to the Liang dynasty (502–557). Bodhidharma was primarily active in the territory of the Northern Wei (386-634). Modern scholarship dates him to about the early 5th century.   Bodhidharma's teachings and practice centered on meditation and the Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra. The Anthology of the Patriarchal Hall (952) identifies Bodhidharma as the 28th Patriarch of Buddhism in an uninterrupted line that extends all the way back to the Gautama Buddha himself.
Brad Meltzer (born April 1, 1970) is an American political thriller novelist, non-fiction writer, TV show creator and comic book author.
Brandon Mull is an American author who wrote the children's fantasy series, Fablehaven, as well as Dragonwatch, The Candy Shop War, the Beyonders trilogy, and the Five Kingdoms series. He also began the Spirit Animals series.   He was inspired by J. R. R. Tolkien, C. S. Lewis, and J. K. Rowling.
Brandon Sanderson (born December 19, 1975) is an American fantasy and science fiction writer. He is best known for the Cosmere universe, in which most of his fantasy novels (most notably the Mistborn series and The Stormlight Archive) are set. He is also known for finishing Robert Jordan's epic fantasy series The Wheel of Time.   Sanderson was raised in Lincoln, Nebraska before attending Brigham Young University, where he received degrees in English literature and creative writing. In 2008 Sanderson started a podcast with author Dan Wells and cartoonist Howard Tayler called Writing Excuses, involving topics about creating genre writing and webcomics.   In 2016, the American media company DMG Entertainment licensed the movie rights to Sanderson's entire Cosmere universe.   He also created Sanderson's Laws of Magic and popularized the terms hard magic and soft magic systems.
Brenda Ueland (October 24, 1891 – March 5, 1985) was a journalist, editor, freelance writer, and teacher of writing. She is best known for her book If You Want to Write: A Book about Art, Independence and Spirit.
Brent Weeks (born March 7, 1977) is an American fantasy writer. He made The New York Times Best Seller list with The Blinding Knife in its first month, September 2012.
Bret Easton Ellis (born March 7, 1964) is an American author, screenwriter, and short story writer. His works have been translated into 27 languages. He was at first regarded as one of the so-called literary Brat Pack, which also included Tama Janowitz and Jay McInerney. He is a self-proclaimed satirist whose trademark technique, as a writer, is the expression of extreme acts and opinions in an affectless style. Ellis employs a technique of linking novels with common, recurring characters.   At the age of 21, his first novel, the controversial bestseller Less Than Zero (1985), was published by Simon & Schuster. His third novel, American Psycho (1991) was his most successful; upon release, the literary establishment widely condemned the novel as overly violent and misogynistic. Though many petitions to ban the book saw Ellis dropped by Simon & Schuster, the resounding controversy convinced Alfred A. Knopf to release it as a paperback later that year. In later years, Ellis' novels have become increasingly metafictional. Lunar Park (2005), a pseudo-memoir and ghost story, received positive reviews. Imperial Bedrooms (2010), marketed as a sequel to Less Than Zero, continues in this vein.   Four of Ellis's works have been made into films. Less Than Zero was adapted for screen in 1987 with a film of the same name, however the film bore little resemblance to the novel. Mary Harron's adaptation of American Psycho was released to generally positive reviews in 2000. Roger Avary's 2002 adaptation The Rules of Attraction made modest box office returns. 2008's The Informers, based on Ellis's collection of short stories, was critically panned. Ellis also wrote the screenplay for the critically derided 2013 film The Canyons.
Brian Andreas (born 1956) is the pen name of Kai Andreas Skye, an American writer, artist, publisher and speaker widely known for his simple and poetic short stories of 50 to 100 words, often accompanied by distinctive color drawings. The stories range from wry comic commentary to elegant and direct meditations on themes of love, relationships, and being alive now. His earlier stories, prints and books to 2014 continue to be released by his company StoryPeople. After 2014, his work is published for both national and international audiences by brian andreas studio.   The work published by StoryPeople now includes twelve books incorporating drawings and writings, color prints of his drawings and short stories, as well as greeting cards and calendars. The mixed-media sculptures incorporating salvaged wood in deliberately crude shapes, bright colors, hand drawings (especially faces) and rubber-stamped imprints of his writings went out of production in June, 2015. His studio resumed production of the sculptures in October 2017. The work published by brian andreas studio includes his latest stories in color prints and original drawings and watercolors on fine art papers.   In 1994, Andreas founded a company, StoryPeople, to distribute his work worldwide. In 2012 he founded tumblecloud.com, a collaborative digital storytelling platform. In 2014, he founded brianandreas.com as a platform for his original art and his other creative projects. In 2015, he was a key collaborator in the formation of A Hundred Ways North, a company focused on using stories and workshops to transform the ways people find and sustain community.   In 2016, Andreas legally changed his name to Kai Andreas Skye. He continues to use the pen name Brian Andreas in his published work.
Brian Tracy (born January 5, 1944) is a Canadian-American motivational public speaker and self-development author. He is the author of over seventy books that have been translated into dozens of languages. His popular books are Earn What You're Really Worth, Eat That Frog!, and The Psychology of Achievement.
Carl August Sandburg (January 6, 1878 – July 22, 1967) was an American poet, writer, and editor. He won three Pulitzer Prizes: two for his poetry and one for his biography of Abraham Lincoln. During his lifetime, Sandburg was widely regarded as "a major figure in contemporary literature", especially for volumes of his collected verse, including Chicago Poems (1916), Cornhuskers (1918), and Smoke and Steel (1920). He enjoyed "unrivaled appeal as a poet in his day, perhaps because the breadth of his experiences connected him with so many strands of American life", and at his death in 1967, President Lyndon B. Johnson observed that "Carl Sandburg was more than the voice of America, more than the poet of its strength and genius. He was America."
Carl Frederick Buechner (/ˈbiːknər/ BEEK-nər; born July 11, 1926) is an American writer, novelist, poet, autobiographer, essayist, preacher, and theologian. He is an ordained Presbyterian minister and the author of more than thirty published books. His work encompasses different genres, including fiction, autobiography, essays and sermons, and his career has spanned six decades. Buechner's books have been translated into many languages for publication around the world. He is best known for his novels, including A Long Day's Dying, The Book of Bebb, Godric (a finalist for the 1981 Pulitzer Prize), and Brendan, his memoirs, including Telling Secrets and The Sacred Journey, and his more theological works, including Secrets in the Dark, The Magnificent Defeat, and Telling the Truth.   He has been called "Major talent" and "...a very good writer indeed" by the New York Times, and "one of our most original storytellers" by USA Today. Annie Dillard (Pulitzer Prize-winning author of Pilgrim at Tinker Creek) says: "Frederick Buechner is one of our finest writers."  Buechner was also a finalist for the National Book Award presented by the National Book Foundation and the Pulitzer Prize, and has been awarded eight honorary degrees from such institutions as Yale University and the Virginia Theological Seminary. In addition, Buechner has been the recipient of the O. Henry Award, the Rosenthal Award, the Christianity and Literature Belles Lettres Prize, and has been recognized by the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters.
Carl Gustav Jung (/jʊŋ/; German: [jʊŋ]; 26 July 1875 – 6 June 1961) was a Swiss psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who founded analytical psychology.   Jung's work was influential in the fields of psychiatry, anthropology, archaeology, literature, philosophy, and religious studies. Jung worked as a research scientist at the famous Burghölzli hospital, under Eugen Bleuler. During this time, he came to the attention of Sigmund Freud, the founder of psychoanalysis. The two men conducted a lengthy correspondence and collaborated, for a while, on a joint vision of human psychology.   Freud saw the younger Jung as the heir he had been seeking to carry on his "new science" of psychoanalysis. Freud even named him the first head of his newly founded International Psychoanalytic Association. Jung's research and personal vision, however, made it impossible for him to bend to his older colleague's doctrine, and a schism became inevitable. This division was personally painful for Jung, and it was to have historic repercussions lasting well into the modern day.   Among the central concepts of analytical psychology is individuation—the lifelong psychological process of differentiation of the self out of each individual's conscious and unconscious elements. Jung considered it to be the main task of human development. He created some of the best known psychological concepts, including synchronicity, archetypal phenomena, the collective unconscious, the psychological complex, and extraversion and introversion.   Jung was also an artist, craftsman and builder as well as a prolific writer. Many of his works were not published until after his death and some are still awaiting publication.
Carlos Ruiz Zafón (Spanish pronunciation: ['kaɾlos 'rwiθ θa'fon]; born 25 September 1964) is a Spanish novelist.
Carl Sagan, from Demon-Haunted World (1995)    Long before the ill-fated tenure process, Cornell University astronomer Thomas Gold had courted Sagan to move to Ithaca, New York and join the faculty at Cornell. Following the denial of tenure from Harvard, Sagan accepted Gold's offer and remained a faculty member at Cornell for nearly 30 years until his death in 1996. Unlike Harvard, the smaller and more laid-back astronomy department at Cornell welcomed Sagan's growing celebrity status. Following two years as an associate professor, Sagan became a full professor at Cornell in 1970, and directed the Laboratory for Planetary Studies there. From 1972 to 1981, he was associate director of the Center for Radiophysics and Space Research (CRSR) at Cornell. In 1976, he became the David Duncan Professor of Astronomy and Space Sciences, a position he held for the remainder of his life.   Sagan was associated with the U.S. space program from its inception. From the 1950s onward, he worked as an advisor to NASA, where one of his duties included briefing the Apollo astronauts before their flights to the Moon. Sagan contributed to many of the robotic spacecraft missions that explored the Solar System, arranging experiments on many of the expeditions. Sagan assembled the first physical message that was sent into space: a gold-anodized plaque, attached to the space probe Pioneer 10, launched in 1972. Pioneer 11, also carrying another copy of the plaque, was launched the following year. He continued to refine his designs; the most elaborate message he helped to develop and assemble was the Voyager Golden Record that was sent out with the Voyager space probes in 1977. Sagan often challenged the decisions to fund the Space Shuttle and the International Space Station at the expense of further robotic missions.  Scientific achievements   Former student David Morrison describes Sagan as "an 'idea person' and a master of intuitive physical arguments and 'back of the envelope' calculations," and Gerard Kuiper said that "Some persons work best in specializing on a major program in the laboratory; others are best in liaison between sciences. Dr. Sagan belongs in the latter group."   Sagan's contributions were central to the discovery of the high surface temperatures of the planet Venus. In the early 1960s no one knew for certain the basic conditions of Venus' surface, and Sagan listed the possibilities in a report later depicted for popularization in a Time Life book, Planets. His own view was that Venus was dry and very hot as opposed to the balmy paradise others had imagined. He had investigated radio waves from Venus and concluded that there was a surface temperature of 500 °C (900 °F). As a visiting scientist to NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, he contributed to the first Mariner missions to Venus, working on the design and management of the project. Mariner 2 confirmed his conclusions on the surface conditions of Venus in 1962.   Sagan was among[clarification needed] the first to hypothesize that Saturn's moon Titan might possess oceans of liquid compounds on its surface and that Jupiter's moon Europa might possess subsurface oceans of water. This would make Europa potentially habitable. Europa's subsurface ocean of water was later indirectly confirmed by the spacecraft Galileo. The mystery of Titan's reddish haze was also solved with Sagan's help. The reddish haze was revealed to be due to complex organic molecules constantly raining down onto Titan's surface.[self-published source]   He further contributed insights regarding the atmospheres of Venus and Jupiter as well as seasonal changes on Mars. He also perceived global warming as a growing, man-made danger and likened it to the natural development of Venus into a hot, life-hostile planet through a kind of runaway greenhouse effect. Sagan and his Cornell colleague Edwin Ernest Salpeter speculated about life in Jupiter's clouds, given the planet's dense atmospheric composition rich in organic molecules. He studied the observed color variations on Mars' surface and concluded that they were not seasonal or vegetational changes as most believed[clarification needed] but shifts in surface dust caused by windstorms.   Sagan is also known for his research on the possibilities of extraterrestrial life, including experimental demonstration of the production of amino acids from basic chemicals by radiation.   He is also the 1994 recipient of the Public Welfare Medal, the highest award of the National Academy of Sciences for "distinguished contributions in the application of science to the public welfare". He was denied membership in the Academy, reportedly because his media activities made him unpopular with many other scientists.   As of 2017, Sagan is the most cited SETI scientist and one of the most cited planetary scientists.  Cosmos: popularizing science on TV  Sagan in Cosmos (1980)   In 1980 Sagan co-wrote and narrated the award-winning 13-part PBS television series, Cosmos: A Personal Voyage, which became the most widely watched series in the history of American public television. The show has been seen by at least 500 million people across 60 different countries. The book, Cosmos, written by Sagan, was published to accompany the series.   Because of his earlier popularity as a science writer from his best-selling books, including The Dragons of Eden, which won him a Pulitzer Prize in 1977, he was asked to write and narrate the show. It was targeted to a general audience of viewers who Sagan felt had lost interest in science, partly due to a stifled educational system.   Each of the 13 episodes was created to focus on a particular subject or person, thereby demonstrating the synergy of the universe. They covered a wide range of scientific subjects including the origin of life and a perspective of humans' place on Earth.   The show won an Emmy along with a Peabody Award, and transformed Sagan from an obscure astronomer into a pop-culture icon. Time magazine ran a cover story about Sagan soon after the show broadcast, referring to him as "creator, chief writer and host-narrator of the show. In 2000, "Cosmos" was released on a remastered set of DVDs.   "Billions and billions" See also: Sagan's number  Sagan with a model of the Viking lander that would land on Mars. Sagan examined possible landing sites for Viking along with Mike Carr and Hal Masursky.   Sagan was invited to frequent appearances on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson. After Cosmos aired, he became associated with the catchphrase "billions and billions", although he never actually used the phrase in the Cosmos series. He rather used the term "billions upon billions." Carson, however, would sometimes use the phrase during his parodies of Sagan.   As a humorous tribute to Sagan and his association with the catchphrase "billions and billions", a sagan has been defined as a unit of measurement equivalent to a very large number – technically at least four billion (two billion plus two billion) – of anything.  Scientific and critical thinking advocacy      Sagan's ability to convey his ideas allowed many people to understand the cosmos better—simultaneously emphasizing the value and worthiness of the human race, and the relative insignificance of the Earth in comparison to the Universe. He delivered the 1977 series of Royal Institution Christmas Lectures in London.   Sagan was a proponent of the search for extraterrestrial life. He urged the scientific community to listen with radio telescopes for signals from potential intelligent extraterrestrial life-forms. Sagan was so persuasive that by 1982 he was able to get a petition advocating SETI published in the journal Science, signed by 70 scientists, including seven Nobel Prize winners. This signaled a tremendous increase in the respectability of a then-controversial field. Sagan also helped Frank Drake write the Arecibo message, a radio message beamed into space from the Arecibo radio telescope on November 16, 1974, aimed at informing potential extraterrestrials about Earth.   Sagan was chief technology officer of the professional planetary research journal Icarus for twelve years. He co-founded The Planetary Society, and was a member of the SETI Institute Board of Trustees. Sagan served as Chairman of the Division for Planetary Science of the American Astronomical Society, as President of the Planetology Section of the American Geophysical Union, and as Chairman of the Astronomy Section of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS).   The Planetary Society members at the organization's founding. Carl Sagan is seated on the right.   At the height of the Cold War, Sagan became involved in nuclear disarmament efforts by promoting hypotheses on the effects of nuclear war, when Paul Crutzen's "Twilight at Noon" concept suggested that a substantial nuclear exchange could trigger a nuclear twilight and upset the delicate balance of life on Earth by cooling the surface. In 1983 he was one of five authors—the "S"—in the follow-up "TTAPS" model (as the research paper came to be known), which contained the first use of the term "nuclear winter", which his colleague Richard P. Turco had coined. In 1984 he co-authored the book The Cold and the Dark: The World after Nuclear War and in 1990 he co-authored the book A Path Where No Man Thought: Nuclear Winter and the End of the Arms Race, which explains the nuclear winter hypothesis and advocates nuclear disarmament. Sagan received a great deal of skepticism and disdain for the use of media to disseminate a very uncertain hypothesis. A personal correspondence with nuclear physicist Edward Teller c. 1983 began amicably, with Teller expressing support for continued research to ascertain the credibility of the winter hypothesis. However, Sagan and Teller's correspondence would ultimately result in Teller writing, "A propagandist is one who uses incomplete information to produce maximum persuasion. I can compliment you on being, indeed, an excellent propagandist, remembering that a propagandist is the better the less he appears to be one". Biographers of Sagan would also comment that from a scientific viewpoint, nuclear winter was a low point for Sagan, although, politically speaking, it popularized his image amongst the public.   The adult Sagan remained a fan of science fiction, although disliking stories that were not realistic (such as ignoring the inverse-square law) or, he said, did not include "thoughtful pursuit of alternative futures". He wrote books to popularize science, such as Cosmos, which reflected and expanded upon some of the themes of A Personal Voyage and became the best-selling science book ever published in English; The Dragons of Eden: Speculations on the Evolution of Human Intelligence, which won a Pulitzer Prize; and Broca's Brain: Reflections on the Romance of Science. Sagan also wrote the best-selling science fiction novel Contact in 1985, based on a film treatment he wrote with his wife, Ann Druyan, in 1979, but he did not live to see the book's 1997 motion picture adaptation, which starred Jodie Foster and won the 1998 Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation.   Pale Blue Dot: Earth is a bright pixel when photographed from Voyager 1 six billion kilometers out (beyond Pluto). Sagan encouraged NASA to generate this image. from Pale Blue Dot (1994) On it, everyone you ever heard of...The aggregate of all our joys and sufferings, thousands of confident religions, ideologies and economic doctrines, every hunter and forager, every hero and coward, every creator and destroyer of civilizations, every king and peasant, every young couple in love, every hopeful child, every mother and father, every inventor and explorer, every teacher of morals, every corrupt politician, every superstar, every supreme leader, every saint and sinner in the history of our species, lived there on a mote of dust, suspended in a sunbeam. . . .   Think of the rivers of blood spilled by all those generals and emperors so that in glory and triumph they could become the momentary masters of a fraction of a dot. Carl Sagan, Cornell lecture in 1994    Sagan wrote a sequel to Cosmos, Pale Blue Dot: A Vision of the Human Future in Space, which was selected as a notable book of 1995 by The New York Times. He appeared on PBS's Charlie Rose program in January 1995. Sagan also wrote the introduction for Stephen Hawking's bestseller, A Brief History of Time. Sagan was also known for his popularization of science, his efforts to increase scientific understanding among the general public, and his positions in favor of scientific skepticism and against pseudoscience, such as his debunking of the Betty and Barney Hill abduction. To mark the tenth anniversary of Sagan's death, David Morrison, a former student of Sagan's, recalled "Sagan's immense contributions to planetary research, the public understanding of science, and the skeptical movement" in Skeptical Inquirer.    Following Saddam Hussein's threats to light Kuwait's oil wells on fire in response to any physical challenge to Iraqi control of the oil assets, Sagan together with his "TTAPS" colleagues and Paul Crutzen, warned in January 1991 in the Baltimore Sun and Wilmington Morning Star newspapers that if the fires were left to burn over a period of several months, enough smoke from the 600 or so 1991 Kuwaiti oil fires "might get so high as to disrupt agriculture in much of South Asia ..." and that this possibility should "affect the war plans"; these claims were also the subject of a televised debate between Sagan and physicist Fred Singer on 22 January, aired on the ABC News program Nightline. Sagan admitted he had overestimated the danger posed by the 1991 Kuwaiti oil fires.   In the televised debate, Sagan argued that the effects of the smoke would be similar to the effects of a nuclear winter, with Singer arguing to the contrary. After the debate, the fires burnt for many months before extinguishing efforts were complete. The results of the smoke did not produce continental-sized cooling. Sagan later conceded in The Demon-Haunted World that the prediction did not turn out to be correct: "it was pitch black at noon and temperatures dropped 4°–6° C over the Persian Gulf, but not much smoke reached stratospheric altitudes and Asia was spared".   In his later years Sagan advocated the creation of an organized search for asteroids/near-Earth objects (NEOs) that might impact the Earth but to forestall or postpone developing the technological methods that would be needed to defend against them. He argued that all of the numerous methods proposed to alter the orbit of an asteroid, including the employment of nuclear detonations, created a Deflection Dilemma: if the ability to deflect an asteroid away from the Earth exists, then one would also have the ability to divert a non-threatening object towards Earth, creating an immensely destructive weapon. In a 1994 paper he co-authored, he ridiculed a 3-day long "Near-Earth Object Interception Workshop" held by Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL) in 1993 that did not, "even in passing" state that such interception and deflection technologies could have these "ancillary dangers".   Sagan remained hopeful that the natural NEO impact threat, and the intrinsically double-edged essence of the methods to prevent these threats, would serve as a "new and potent motivation to maturing international relations". Later acknowledging that, with sufficient international oversight, in the future a "work our way up" approach to implementing nuclear explosive deflection methods could be fielded, and when sufficient knowledge was gained, to use them to aid in mining asteroids. His interest in the use of nuclear detonations in space grew out of his work in 1958 for the Armour Research Foundation's Project A119, concerning the possibility of detonating a nuclear device on the lunar surface.    Sagan was a critic of Plato, having said of the ancient Greek philosopher: "Science and mathematics were to be removed from the hands of the merchants and the artisans. This tendency found its most effective advocate in a follower of Pythagoras named Plato" and   He (Plato) believed that ideas were far more real than the natural world. He advised the astronomers not to waste their time observing the stars and planets. It was better, he believed, just to think about them. Plato expressed hostility to observation and experiment. He taught contempt for the real world and disdain for the practical application of scientific knowledge. Plato's followers succeeded in extinguishing the light of science and experiment that had been kindled by Democritus and the other Ionians. Popularizing science   Speaking about his activities in popularizing science, Sagan said that there were at least two reasons for scientists to share the purposes of science and its contemporary state. Simple self-interest was one: much of the funding for science came from the public, and the public therefore had the right to know how the money was being spent. If scientists increased public admiration for science, there was a good chance of having more public supporters.[clarification needed] The other reason was the excitement of communicating one's own excitement about science to others.  Criticisms   While Sagan was widely adored by the general public, his reputation in the scientific community was more polarized. Critics sometimes characterized his work as fanciful, non-rigorous, and self-aggrandizing, and others complained in his later years that he neglected his role as a faculty member to foster his celebrity status.   One of Sagan's harshest critics, Harold Urey, felt that Sagan was getting too much publicity for a scientist and was treating some scientific theories too casually. Urey and Sagan were said to have different philosophies of science, according to Davidson. While Urey was an "old-time empiricist" who avoided theorizing about the unknown, Sagan was by contrast willing to speculate openly about such matters. Fred Whipple wanted Harvard to keep Sagan there, but learned that because Urey was a Nobel laureate, his opinion was an important factor in Harvard denying Sagan tenure.   Sagan's Harvard friend Lester Grinspoon also stated, "I know Harvard well enough to know there are people there who certainly do not like people who are outspoken." Grinspoon added:    Wherever you turned, there was one astronomer being quoted on everything, one astronomer whose face you were seeing on TV, and one astronomer whose books had the preferred display slot at the local bookstore.    Some, like Urey, later came to realize Sagan's popular brand of scientific advocacy was beneficial to the science as a whole. Urey especially liked Sagan's 1977 book, The Dragons of Eden, and wrote Sagan with his opinion: "I like it very much and am amazed that someone like you has such an intimate knowledge of the various features of the problem...I congratulate you...You are a man of many talents."   Sagan was accused of borrowing some ideas of others for his own benefit, and countered these claims by explaining that the misappropriation was an unfortunate side effect of his role as a science communicator and explainer, and that he attempted to give proper credit whenever possible.  Social concerns   Sagan believed that the Drake equation, on substitution of reasonable estimates, suggested that a large number of extraterrestrial civilizations would form, but that the lack of evidence of such civilizations highlighted by the Fermi paradox suggests technological civilizations tend to self-destruct. This stimulated his interest in identifying and publicizing ways that humanity could destroy itself, with the hope of avoiding such a cataclysm and eventually becoming a spacefaring species. Sagan's deep concern regarding the potential destruction of human civilization in a nuclear holocaust was conveyed in a memorable cinematic sequence in the final episode of Cosmos, called "Who Speaks for Earth?" Sagan had already resigned[date missing] from the Air Force Scientific Advisory Board's UFO investigating Condon Committee and voluntarily surrendered his top secret clearance in protest over the Vietnam War. Following his marriage to his third wife (novelist Ann Druyan) in June 1981, Sagan became more politically active—particularly in opposing escalation of the nuclear arms race under President Ronald Reagan.   The United States and Soviet Union/Russia nuclear stockpiles, in total number of nuclear bombs/warheads in existence throughout the Cold War and post-Cold War era.   In March 1983, Reagan announced the Strategic Defense Initiative—a multibillion-dollar project to develop a comprehensive defense against attack by nuclear missiles, which was quickly dubbed the "Star Wars" program. Sagan spoke out against the project, arguing that it was technically impossible to develop a system with the level of perfection required, and far more expensive to build such a system than it would be for an enemy to defeat it through decoys and other means—and that its construction would seriously destabilize the "nuclear balance" between the United States and the Soviet Union, making further progress toward nuclear disarmament impossible.   When Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev declared a unilateral moratorium on the testing of nuclear weapons, which would begin on August 6, 1985—the 40th anniversary of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima—the Reagan administration dismissed the dramatic move as nothing more than propaganda, and refused to follow suit. In response, US anti-nuclear and peace activists staged a series of protest actions at the Nevada Test Site, beginning on Easter Sunday in 1986 and continuing through 1987. Hundreds of people in the "Nevada Desert Experience" group were arrested, including Sagan, who was arrested on two separate occasions as he climbed over a chain-link fence at the test site during the underground Operation Charioteer and United States's Musketeer nuclear test series of detonations.   Sagan was also a vocal advocate of the controversial notion of testosterone poisoning, arguing in 1992 that human males could become gripped by an "unusually severe [case of] testosterone poisoning" and this could compel them to become genocidal. In his review of Moondance magazine writer Daniela Gioseffi's 1990 book Women on War, he argues that females are the only half of humanity "untainted by testosterone poisoning". One chapter of his 1993 book, Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors is dedicated to testosterone and its alleged poisonous effects.  Personal life and beliefs  I have just finished The Cosmic Connection and loved every word of it. You are my idea of a good writer because you have an unmannered style, and when I read what you write, I hear you talking. One thing about the book made me nervous. It was entirely too obvious that you are smarter than I am. I hate that.   Isaac Asimov, in letter to Sagan, 1973     Sagan was married three times. In 1957, he married biologist Lynn Margulis. The couple had two children, Jeremy and Dorion Sagan. After Carl Sagan and Margulis divorced, he married artist Linda Salzman in 1968 and they also had a child together, Nick Sagan. During these marriages, Carl Sagan focused heavily on his career, a factor which may have contributed to Sagan's first divorce. In 1981, Sagan married author Ann Druyan and they later had two children, Alexandra and Samuel Sagan. Carl Sagan and Druyan remained married until his death in 1996. He lived in an Egyptian revival house in Ithaca perched on the edge of a cliff that had formerly been the headquarters of a Cornell secret society.   Isaac Asimov described Sagan as one of only two people he ever met whose intellect surpassed his own. The other, he claimed, was the computer scientist and artificial intelligence expert Marvin Minsky.    Sagan wrote frequently about religion and the relationship between religion and science, expressing his skepticism about the conventional conceptualization of God as a sapient being. For example:   Some people think God is an outsized, light-skinned male with a long white beard, sitting on a throne somewhere up there in the sky, busily tallying the fall of every sparrow. Others—for example Baruch Spinoza and Albert Einstein—considered God to be essentially the sum total of the physical laws which describe the universe. I do not know of any compelling evidence for anthropomorphic patriarchs controlling human destiny from some hidden celestial vantage point, but it would be madness to deny the existence of physical laws.   In another description of his view on the concept of God, Sagan emphatically wrote:   The idea that God is an oversized white male with a flowing beard who sits in the sky and tallies the fall of every sparrow is ludicrous. But if by God one means the set of physical laws that govern the universe, then clearly there is such a God. This God is emotionally unsatisfying ... it does not make much sense to pray to the law of gravity.   On atheism, Sagan commented in 1981:   An atheist is someone who is certain that God does not exist, someone who has compelling evidence against the existence of God. I know of no such compelling evidence. Because God can be relegated to remote times and places and to ultimate causes, we would have to know a great deal more about the universe than we do now to be sure that no such God exists. To be certain of the existence of God and to be certain of the nonexistence of God seem to me to be the confident extremes in a subject so riddled with doubt and uncertainty as to inspire very little confidence indeed.   Sagan also commented on Christianity and the Jefferson Bible, stating "My long-time view about Christianity is that it represents an amalgam of two seemingly immiscible parts, the religion of Jesus and the religion of Paul. Thomas Jefferson attempted to excise the Pauline parts of the New Testament. There wasn't much left when he was done, but it was an inspiring document."    Regarding spirituality and its relationship with science, Sagan stated:   'Spirit' comes from the Latin word 'to breathe'. What we breathe is air, which is certainly matter, however thin. Despite usage to the contrary, there is no necessary implication in the word 'spiritual' that we are talking of anything other than matter (including the matter of which the brain is made), or anything outside the realm of science. On occasion, I will feel free to use the word. Science is not only compatible with spirituality; it is a profound source of spirituality. When we recognize our place in an immensity of light-years and in the passage of ages, when we grasp the intricacy, beauty, and subtlety of life, then that soaring feeling, that sense of elation and humility combined, is surely spiritual.   An environmental appeal, "Preserving and Cherishing the Earth", signed by Sagan with other noted scientists in January 1990, stated that "The historical record makes clear that religious teaching, example, and leadership are powerfully able to influence personal conduct and commitment... Thus, there is a vital role for religion and science."    In reply to a question in 1996 about his religious beliefs, Sagan answered, "I'm agnostic." Sagan maintained that the idea of a creator God of the Universe was difficult to prove or disprove and that the only conceivable scientific discovery that could challenge it would be an infinitely old universe. Sagan's views on religion have been interpreted as a form of pantheism comparable to Einstein's belief in Spinoza's God. His son, Dorion Sagan said, "My father believed in the God of Spinoza and Einstein, God not behind nature but as nature, equivalent to it." His last wife, Ann Druyan, stated:   When my husband died, because he was so famous and known for not being a believer, many people would come up to me—it still sometimes happens—and ask me if Carl changed at the end and converted to a belief in an afterlife. They also frequently ask me if I think I will see him again. Carl faced his death with unflagging courage and never sought refuge in illusions. The tragedy was that we knew we would never see each other again. I don't ever expect to be reunited with Carl.   In 2006, Ann Druyan edited Sagan's 1985 Glasgow Gifford Lectures in Natural Theology into a book, The Varieties of Scientific Experience: A Personal View of the Search for God, in which he elaborates on his views of divinity in the natural world.   Carl Sagan (center) speaks with CDC employees in 1988.   Sagan is also widely regarded as a freethinker or skeptic; one of his most famous quotations, in Cosmos, was, "Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence" (called the "Sagan standard" by some). This was based on a nearly identical statement by fellow founder of the Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal, Marcello Truzzi, "An extraordinary claim requires extraordinary proof." This idea had been earlier aphorized in Théodore Flournoy's work From India to the Planet Mars (1899) from a longer quote by Pierre-Simon Laplace (1749–1827), a French mathematician and astronomer, as the Principle of Laplace: "The weight of the evidence should be proportioned to the strangeness of the facts."   Late in his life, Sagan's books elaborated on his skeptical, naturalistic view of the world. In The Demon-Haunted World, he presented tools for testing arguments and detecting fallacious or fraudulent ones, essentially advocating wide use of critical thinking and the scientific method. The compilation Billions and Billions: Thoughts on Life and Death at the Brink of the Millennium, published in 1997 after Sagan's death, contains essays written by Sagan, such as his views on abortion, as well as an account by his widow, Ann Druyan, of his death in relation to his having been a skeptic, agnostic, and freethinker.   Sagan warned against humans' tendency towards anthropocentrism. He was the faculty adviser for the Cornell Students for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. In the Cosmos chapter "Blues For a Red Planet", Sagan wrote, "If there is life on Mars, I believe we should do nothing with Mars. Mars then belongs to the Martians, even if the Martians are only microbes."   Sagan was a user and advocate of marijuana. Under the pseudonym "Mr. X", he contributed an essay about smoking cannabis to the 1971 book Marihuana Reconsidered. The essay explained that marijuana use had helped to inspire some of Sagan's works and enhance sensual and intellectual experiences. After Sagan's death, his friend Lester Grinspoon disclosed this information to Sagan's biographer, Keay Davidson. The publishing of the biography, Carl Sagan: A Life, in 1999 brought media attention to this aspect of Sagan's life. Not long after his death, widow Ann Druyan went on to preside over the board of directors of the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML), a non-profit organization dedicated to reforming cannabis laws.   In 1994, engineers at Apple Computer code-named the Power Macintosh 7100 "Carl Sagan" in the hope that Apple would make "billions and billions" with the sale of the PowerMac 7100. The name was only used internally, but Sagan was concerned that it would become a product endorsement and sent Apple a cease-and-desist letter. Apple complied, but engineers retaliated by changing the internal codename to "BHA" for "Butt-Head Astronomer". Sagan then sued Apple for libel in federal court. The court granted Apple's motion to dismiss Sagan's claims and opined in dicta that a reader aware of the context would understand Apple was "clearly attempting to retaliate in a humorous and satirical way", and that "It strains reason to conclude that Defendant was attempting to criticize Plaintiff's reputation or competency as an astronomer. One does not seriously attack the expertise of a scientist using the undefined phrase 'butt-head'." Sagan then sued for Apple's original use of his name and likeness, but again lost. Sagan appealed the ruling. In November 1995, an out-of-court settlement was reached and Apple's office of trademarks and patents released a conciliatory statement that "Apple has always had great respect for Dr. Sagan. It was never Apple's intention to cause Dr. Sagan or his family any embarrassment or concern." Apple's third and final code name for the project was "LAW", short for "Lawyers are Wimps".   Sagan briefly served as an adviser on Stanley Kubrick's film 2001: A Space Odyssey.:168 Sagan proposed that the film suggest, rather than depict, extraterrestrial superintelligence.  Sagan and UFOs   In 1947, the year that inaugurated the "flying saucer" craze, the young Sagan suspected the "discs" might be alien spaceships.   Sagan's interest in UFO reports prompted him on August 3, 1952, to write a letter to U.S. Secretary of State Dean Acheson to ask how the United States would respond if flying saucers turned out to be extraterrestrial.:51–52 He later had several conversations on the subject in 1964 with Jacques Vallée. Though quite skeptical of any extraordinary answer to the UFO question, Sagan thought scientists should study the phenomenon, at least because there was widespread public interest in UFO reports.   Stuart Appelle notes that Sagan "wrote frequently on what he perceived as the logical and empirical fallacies regarding UFOs and the abduction experience. Sagan rejected an extraterrestrial explanation for the phenomenon but felt there were both empirical and pedagogical benefits for examining UFO reports and that the subject was, therefore, a legitimate topic of study."   In 1966 Sagan was a member of the Ad Hoc Committee to Review Project Blue Book, the U.S. Air Force's UFO investigation project. The committee concluded Blue Book had been lacking as a scientific study, and recommended a university-based project to give the UFO phenomenon closer scientific scrutiny. The result was the Condon Committee (1966–68), led by physicist Edward Condon, and in their final report they formally concluded that UFOs, regardless of what any of them actually were, did not behave in a manner consistent with a threat to national security.   Sociologist Ron Westrum writes that "The high point of Sagan's treatment of the UFO question was the AAAS' symposium in 1969. A wide range of educated opinions on the subject were offered by participants, including not only proponents such as James McDonald and J. Allen Hynek but also skeptics like astronomers William Hartmann and Donald Menzel. The roster of speakers was balanced, and it is to Sagan's credit that this event was presented in spite of pressure from Edward Condon." With physicist Thornton Page, Sagan edited the lectures and discussions given at the symposium; these were published in 1972 as UFO's: A Scientific Debate. Some of Sagan's many books examine UFOs (as did one episode of Cosmos) and he claimed a religious undercurrent to the phenomenon.   Sagan again revealed his views on interstellar travel in his 1980 Cosmos series. In one of his last written works, Sagan argued that the chances of extraterrestrial spacecraft visiting Earth are vanishingly small. However, Sagan did think it plausible that Cold War concerns contributed to governments misleading their citizens about UFOs, and wrote that "some UFO reports and analyses, and perhaps voluminous files, have been made inaccessible to the public which pays the bills ... It's time for the files to be declassified and made generally available." He cautioned against jumping to conclusions about suppressed UFO data and stressed that there was no strong evidence that aliens were visiting the Earth either in the past or present.  Sagan's Paradox   Sagan's contribution to the 1969 symposium was an attack on the belief that UFOs are piloted by extraterrestrial beings: Applying several logical assumptions (see Drake equation), Sagan calculated the possible number of advanced civilizations capable of interstellar travel to be about one million. He projected that any civilization wishing to check on all the others on a regular basis of, say, once a year would have to launch 10,000 spacecraft annually. Not only does that seem like an unreasonable number of launchings, but it would take all the material in one percent of the universe's stars to produce all the spaceships needed for all the civilizations to seek each other out.   To argue that the Earth was being chosen for regular visitations, Sagan said, one would have to assume that the planet is somehow unique. And that assumption "goes exactly against the idea that there are lots of civilizations around. Because if there are then our sort of civilization must be pretty common. And if we're not pretty common then there aren't going to be many civilizations advanced enough to send visitors."   This argument, which some called "Sagan's paradox," helped to establish a new school of thought: the belief that extraterrestrial life exists but has nothing to do with UFOs. The new belief had a salutary effect on UFO studies. It helped separate researchers who wanted to identify unidentified flying objects from those who wanted to identify their pilots. And it gave scientists opportunities to search the universe for intelligent life unencumbered by the stigma associated with UFOs.  Death  Stone dedicated to Carl Sagan in the Celebrity Path of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden   After suffering from myelodysplasia for two years, and receiving three bone marrow transplants from his sister, Carol, Sagan died of pneumonia at the age of 62, at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, Washington, in the early morning of December 20, 1996. Burial took place at Lakeview Cemetery in Ithaca, New York.  Awards and honors  NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal    - Annual Award for Television Excellence—1981—Ohio State University—PBS series Cosmos: A Personal Voyage - Apollo Achievement Award—National Aeronautics and Space Administration - NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal—National Aeronautics and Space Administration (1977) - Emmy—Outstanding Individual Achievement—1981—PBS series Cosmos: A Personal Voyage - Emmy—Outstanding Informational Series—1981—PBS series Cosmos: A Personal Voyage - Exceptional Scientific Achievement Medal—National Aeronautics and Space Administration - Helen Caldicott Leadership Award – Awarded by Women's Action for Nuclear Disarmament - Hugo Award—1981—Best Dramatic Presentation—Cosmos: A Personal Voyage - Hugo Award—1981—Best Related Non-Fiction Book—Cosmos - Hugo Award—1998—Best Dramatic Presentation—Contact - Humanist of the Year—1981—Awarded by the American Humanist Association - American Philosophical Society—1995—Elected to membership. - In Praise of Reason Award—1987—Committee for Skeptical Inquiry  - Isaac Asimov Award—1994—Committee for Skeptical Inquiry - John F. Kennedy Astronautics Award—1982—American Astronautical Society - Special non-fiction Campbell Memorial Award—1974—The Cosmic Connection: An Extraterrestrial Perspective - Joseph Priestley Award—"For distinguished contributions to the welfare of mankind" - Klumpke-Roberts Award of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific—1974 - Konstantin Tsiolkovsky Medal—Awarded by the Soviet Cosmonauts Federation - Locus Award 1986—Contact - Lowell Thomas Award—The Explorers Club—75th Anniversary - Masursky Award—American Astronomical Society - Miller Research Fellowship—Miller Institute (1960–1962) - Oersted Medal—1990—American Association of Physics Teachers - Peabody Award—1980—PBS series Cosmos: A Personal Voyage - Le Prix Galabert d'astronautique—International Astronautical Federation (IAF) - Public Welfare Medal—1994—National Academy of Sciences - Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction—1978—The Dragons of Eden - Science Fiction Chronicle Award—1998—Dramatic Presentation—Contact - UCLA Medal–1991 - Named the "99th Greatest American" on June 5, 2005, Greatest American television series on the Discovery Channel[citation needed] - Named an honorary member of the Demosthenian Literary Society on November 10, 2011 - New Jersey Hall of Fame—2009—Inductee. - Committee for Skeptical Inquiry (CSI) Pantheon of Skeptics—April 2011—Inductee  Posthumous recognition   The 1997 movie Contact, based on Sagan's novel of the same name and finished after his death, ends with the dedication "For Carl". His photo can also be seen at 59:23 in the film.   In 1997 the Sagan Planet Walk was opened in Ithaca, New York. It is a walking-scale model of the Solar System, extending 1.2 km from the center of The Commons in downtown Ithaca to the Sciencenter, a hands-on museum. The exhibition was created in memory of Carl Sagan, who was an Ithaca resident and Cornell Professor. Professor Sagan had been a founding member of the museum's advisory board.   The landing site of the unmanned Mars Pathfinder spacecraft was renamed the Carl Sagan Memorial Station on July 5, 1997. Asteroid 2709 Sagan is named in his honor, as is the Carl Sagan Institute for the search of habitable planets.   Sagan's son, Nick Sagan, wrote several episodes in the Star Trek franchise. In an episode of Star Trek: Enterprise entitled "Terra Prime", a quick shot is shown of the relic rover Sojourner, part of the Mars Pathfinder mission, placed by a historical marker at Carl Sagan Memorial Station on the Martian surface. The marker displays a quote from Sagan: "Whatever the reason you're on Mars, I'm glad you're there, and I wish I was with you." Sagan's student Steve Squyres led the team that landed the rovers Spirit and Opportunity successfully on Mars in 2004.   On November 9, 2001, on what would have been Sagan's 67th birthday, the Ames Research Center dedicated the site for the Carl Sagan Center for the Study of Life in the Cosmos. "Carl was an incredible visionary, and now his legacy can be preserved and advanced by a 21st century research and education laboratory committed to enhancing our understanding of life in the universe and furthering the cause of space exploration for all time", said NASA Administrator Daniel Goldin. Ann Druyan was at the Center as it opened its doors on October 22, 2006.   Sagan has at least three awards named in his honor:    - The Carl Sagan Memorial Award presented jointly since 1997 by the American Astronomical Society and The Planetary Society, - The Carl Sagan Medal for Excellence in Public Communication in Planetary Science presented since 1998 by the American Astronomical Society's Division for Planetary Sciences (AAS/DPS) for outstanding communication by an active planetary scientist to the general public—Carl Sagan was one of the original organizing committee members of the DPS, and - The Carl Sagan Award for Public Understanding of Science presented by the Council of Scientific Society Presidents (CSSP)—Sagan was the first recipient of the CSSP award in 1993.   August 2007 the Independent Investigations Group (IIG) awarded Sagan posthumously a Lifetime Achievement Award. This honor has also been awarded to Harry Houdini and James Randi.   Beginning in 2009, a musical project known as Symphony of Science sampled several excerpts of Sagan from his series Cosmos and remixed them to electronic music. To date, the videos have received over 21 million views worldwide on YouTube.   The 2014 Swedish science fiction short film Wanderers uses excerpts of Sagan's narration of his book Pale Blue Dot, played over digitally-created visuals of humanity's possible future expansion into outer space.   In February 2015, the Finnish-based symphonic metal band Nightwish released the song "Sagan" as a non-album bonus track for their single "Élan". The song, written by the band's songwriter/composer/keyboardist Tuomas Holopainen, is an homage to the life and work of the late Carl Sagan.   In August 2015, it was announced that a biopic of Sagan's life was being planned by Warner Bros.  Publications    - Sagan, Carl; Leonard, Jonathan Norton (1966). Planets. Life Science Library. Editors of Life. New York: Time Inc. LCCN 66022436. OCLC 346361. - ——; Shklovskii, I.S. (1966) [Originally published 1962 as Вселенная, жизнь, разум; Moscow: USSR Academy of Sciences Publisher]. Intelligent Life in the Universe. Authorized translation by Paula Fern. San Francisco: Holden-Day, Inc. LCCN 64018404. OCLC 317314. - ——; Page, Thornton, eds. (1972). UFO's: A Scientific Debate. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press. ISBN 0-801-40740-0. LCCN 72004572. OCLC 415373. - ——, ed. (1973). Communication with Extraterrestrial Intelligence (CETI). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. ISBN 0-262-19106-7. LCCN 73013999. OCLC 700752. - ——; Bradbury, Ray; Clarke, Arthur C.; et al. (1973). Mars and the Mind of Man (1st ed.). New York: Harper & Row. ISBN 0-060-10443-0. LCCN 72009746. OCLC 613541. - —— (1973). The Cosmic Connection: An Extraterrestrial Perspective. Produced by Jerome Agel (1st ed.). Garden City, NY: Anchor Press. ISBN 0-385-00457-5. LCCN 73081117. OCLC 756158. - —— (1975). Other Worlds. Produced by Jerome Agel. Toronto, NY: Bantam Books. ISBN 0-552-66439-1. OCLC 3029556. - —— (1977). The Dragons of Eden: Speculations on the Evolution of Human Intelligence (1st ed.). New York: Random House. ISBN 0-394-41045-9. LCCN 76053472. OCLC 2922889. - ——; Drake, F. D.; Lomberg, Jon; et al. (1978). Murmurs of Earth: The Voyager Interstellar Record (1st ed.). New York: Random House. ISBN 0-394-41047-5. LCCN 77005991. OCLC 4037611. - —— (1979). Broca's Brain: Reflections on the Romance of Science (1st ed.). New York: Random House. ISBN 0-394-50169-1. LCCN 78021810. OCLC 4493944. - —— (1980). Cosmos (1st ed.). New York: Random House. ISBN 0-394-50294-9. LCCN 80005286. OCLC 6280573. - ——; Ehrlich, Paul R.; Kennedy, Donald; et al. (1984). The Cold and the Dark: The World after Nuclear War: The Conference on the Long-Term Worldwide Biological Consequences of Nuclear War. Foreword by Lewis Thomas (1st ed.). New York: W. W. Norton & Company. ISBN 0-393-01870-9. LCCN 84006070. OCLC 10697281. - ——; Druyan, Ann (1985). Comet (1st ed.). New York: Random House. ISBN 0-394-54908-2. LCCN 85008308. OCLC 811602694. - —— (1985). Contact: A Novel. New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 0-671-43400-4. LCCN 85014645. OCLC 12344811. - ——; Turco, Richard (1990). A Path Where No Man Thought: Nuclear Winter and the End of the Arms Race (1st ed.). New York: Random House. ISBN 0-394-58307-8. LCCN 89043155. OCLC 20217496. - ——; Druyan, Ann (1992). Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors: A Search for Who We Are (1st ed.). New York: Random House. ISBN 0-394-53481-6. LCCN 92050155. OCLC 25675747. - Sagan, Carl; Turco, Richard P. (November 1993). "Nuclear Winter in the Post-Cold War Era". Journal of Peace Research. Sage Publications, Ltd. 30 (4): 369–373. doi:10.1177/0022343393030004001. JSTOR 424481. - —— (1994). Pale Blue Dot: A Vision of the Human Future in Space (1st ed.). New York: Random House. ISBN 0-679-43841-6. LCCN 94018121. OCLC 30736355. - —— (1995). The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark (1st ed.). New York: Random House. ISBN 0-394-53512-X. LCCN 95034076. OCLC 779687822. (Note: errata slip inserted.) - ——; Druyan, Ann (1997). Billions and Billions: Thoughts on Life and Death at the Brink of the Millennium (1st ed.). New York: Random House. ISBN 0-679-41160-7. LCCN 96052730. OCLC 36066119. - —— (2006) [Edited from 1985 Gifford Lectures, University of Glasgow]. Druyan, Ann, ed. The Varieties of Scientific Experience: A Personal View of the Search for God. New York: Penguin Press. ISBN 1-59420-107-2. LCCN 2006044827. OCLC 69021064.  See also   - Carl Sagan portal - List of peace activists - Sagan effect - Neil deGrasse Tyson References   Footnotes     1. ^ Richard Feynman, a precursor to Sagan, was observed to have used the phrase "billions and billions" many times in his "red books". However, Sagan's frequent use of the word billions, and distinctive delivery emphasizing the "b" (which he did intentionally, in place of more cumbersome alternatives such as "billions with a 'b'", in order to distinguish the word from "millions"), made him a favorite target of comic performers, including Johnny Carson, Gary Kroeger, Mike Myers, Bronson Pinchot, Penn Jillette, Harry Shearer, and others. Frank Zappa satirized the line in the song "Be in My Video", noting as well "atomic light". Sagan took this all in good humor, and his final book was entitled Billions and Billions, which opened with a tongue-in-cheek discussion of this catchphrase, observing that Carson was an amateur astronomer and that Carson's comic caricature often included real science.  2. ^ CSI was formerly CSICOP, the Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal.    Citations     1. ^ a b c Carl Sagan at the Mathematics Genealogy Project  2. ^ a b Sagan, Carl; Head, Tom (2006). Conversations with Carl Sagan (illustrated ed.). Univ. Press of Mississippi. p. 14. ISBN 978-1-57806-736-7. Extract of page 14  3. ^ a b "Google Scholar page for Carl Sagan".  4. ^ a b "StarChild: Dr. Carl Sagan". StarChild. NASA. Retrieved October 8, 2009.  5. ^ The Seth MacFarlane Collection of the Carl Sagan and Ann Druyan Archive: A Finding Aid to the Collection in the Library of Congress (PDF). Manuscript Division, Library of Congress. 2013.  6. ^ Lowensohn, Josh (February 4, 2014). "Massive Carl Sagan archive posted by Library of Congress". The Verge. Retrieved 16 January 2016.  7. ^ a b Poundstone 1999, pp. 363–364, 374–375  8. ^ "Carl Sagan". Internet Accuracy Project. Grandville, MI: Internet Accuracy Project. Retrieved August 22, 2012.  9. ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v Davidson 1999  10. ^ a b c Spangenburg & Moser 2004, pp. 2–5  11. ^ a b Sagan, Carl (1978-05-28). "Growing up with Science Fiction". The New York Times. p. SM7. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved 2018-12-12.  12. ^ a b c "American National Biography Online, Carl Sagan".  13. ^ a b c Poundstone 1999, p. 15  14. ^ a b Poundstone 1999, p. 14  15. ^ "Ryerson Astronomical Society". Ryerson Astronomical Society (RAS). University of Chicago Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics. Retrieved August 22, 2012.  16. ^ Spangenburg & Moser 2004, p. 28  17. ^ Sagan, Carl (1960). Physical Studies of the Planets. proquest.com (PhD thesis). University of Chicago. p. ii. OCLC 20678107. A thesis in four parts submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in the Department of Astronomy, University of Chicago, June, 1960  18. ^ "Graduate students receive first Sagan teaching awards". University of Chicago Chronicle. University of Chicago News Office. 13 (6). November 11, 1993. Retrieved August 30, 2013.  19. ^ Head 2006, p. xxi  20. ^ Spangenburg & Moser 2004, p. 28  21. ^ Tatarewicz, Joseph N. (1990), Space Technology & Planetary Astronomy, Science, technology, and society, Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press, p. 22, ISBN 0-253-35655-5  22. ^ Ulivi, Paolo (April 6, 2004). "Lunar Exploration: Human Pioneers and Robotic Surveyors". Springer Science & Business Media. ISBN 978-1-85233-746-9.  23. ^ a b c d e f Morrison, David (January–February 2007). "Carl Sagan's Life and Legacy as Scientist, Teacher, and Skeptic". Skeptical Inquirer. Amherst, NY: Committee for Skeptical Inquiry. 31.1: 29–38. ISSN 0194-6730. Retrieved August 31, 2013.  24. ^ Reiffel, Leonard (4 May 2000). "Sagan breached security by revealing US work on a lunar bomb project". Nature. 405 (13): Correspondence. doi:10.1038/35011148.  25. ^ "Happy (Belated) Birthday Carl!". University of California, Berkeley The Berkeley Science Review. Retrieved December 1, 2013.  26. ^ a b Davidson, Keay (1999). Carl Sagan:A life. John Wiley & Sons. p. 138. ISBN 0-471-25286-7.  27. ^ Davidson, Keay (1999). Carl Sagan:A life. John Wiley & Sons. p. 204. ISBN 0-471-25286-7.  28. ^ Sagan, Carl. Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark, Balantine Books (1996) p. 25  29. ^ Davidson, Keay (1999). Carl Sagan:A life. John Wiley & Sons. p. 213. ISBN 0-471-25286-7.  30. ^ Sagan, Carl; Head, Tom (2006). Conversations with Carl Sagan (illustrated ed.). Univ. Press of Mississippi. p. xxi. ISBN 978-1-57806-736-7. Extract of page xxi  31. ^ a b Sagan, Carl (January 5, 1995). "An Interview with Carl Sagan". Charlie Rose (Interview). New York: PBS. Retrieved August 30, 2013.  32. ^ Pierrehumbert, Raymond T. (2010). Principles of Planetary Climate. Cambridge University Press. p. 202. ISBN 978-1-139-49506-6. Extract of page 202  33. ^ Much of Sagan's research in the field of planetary science is outlined by William Poundstone. Poundstone's biography of Sagan includes an 8-page list of Sagan's scientific articles published from 1957 to 1998. Detailed information about Sagan's scientific work comes from the primary research articles. Example: Sagan, C.; Thompson, W.R.; Khare, B.N. (1992). "Titan: A Laboratory for Prebiological Organic Chemistry". Accounts of Chemical Research. Washington, D.C.: American Chemical Society. 25 (7): 286–292. doi:10.1021/ar00019a003. There is commentary on this research article about Titan at David J. Darling's The Encyclopedia of Science.  34. ^ Pafumi, G.R. (2010). Is Our Vision of God Obsolete?: Often What We Believe is not What We Observe. Bloomington, IN: Xlibris. p. 338. ISBN 978-1-4415-9041-1. OCLC 710798384. Retrieved August 30, 2013.  35. ^ Sagan, Carl (1985) [Originally published 1980]. Cosmos (1st Ballantine Books ed.). New York: Ballantine Books. ISBN 0-345-33135-4. LCCN 80005286. OCLC 12814276.  36. ^ "Sagan, Carl Edward". Columbia Encyclopedia (Sixth ed.). New York: Columbia University Press. May 2001. Archived from the original on October 11, 2007. Retrieved August 30, 2013.  37. ^ No Writer Attributed (1963-08-21). "Sagan Synthesizes ATP In Laboratory". The Harvard Crimson. Retrieved 2015-09-12.  38. ^ "Carl Sagan". Pasadena, CA: The Planetary Society. Retrieved August 30, 2013.  39. ^ Benford, Gregory (1997). "A Tribute to Carl Sagan: Popular & Pilloried". Skeptic. The Skeptics Society. 13 (1).  40. ^ Shermer, Michael. "Candle in the Dark". The Works of Michael Shermer. Michael Shermer. Retrieved March 10, 2013. Article originally published in November 2003 issue of Scientific American.  41. ^ Impey, Chris (January–February 2000). "Carl Sagan, Carl Sagan: Biographies Echo an Extraordinary Life". American Scientist (Book review). Sigma Xi. 88 (1). ISSN 0003-0996. Retrieved March 10, 2013.  42. ^ "Carl Sagan". EMuseum. Minnesota State University, Mankato. Archived from the original on May 28, 2010. Retrieved August 30, 2013.  43. ^ "CosmoLearning Astronomy". CosmoLearning. Retrieved October 8, 2009.  44. ^ Vergano, Dan (March 16, 2014). "Who Was Carl Sagan?". National Geographic Daily News. Washington, D.C.: National Geographic Society. Retrieved May 13, 2014.  45. ^ a b Browne, Ray Broadus. The Guide to United States Popular Culture, Popular Press (2001) p. 704  46. ^ a b c "Cosmos". Academy of Television Arts & Sciences. Retrieved September 4, 2013.  47. ^ Popular Science, Oct. 2005, p. 90  48. ^ Golden, Frederic (October 20, 1980). "The Cosmic Explainer". Time. Retrieved August 30, 2013.  49. ^ I Han (July 14, 2015). "Carl Sagan on the Tonight Show with Johnny Carson (full item, 1980)" – via YouTube.  50. ^ a b c Sagan & Druyan 1997, pp. 3–4  51. ^ Shapiro, Fred R., ed. (2006). The Yale Book of Quotations. Foreword by Joseph Epstein. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press. p. 660. ISBN 978-0-300-10798-2. LCCN 2006012317. OCLC 66527213.  52. ^ 24fpsfan (December 22, 2012). "Carl Sagan (Cosmos) Parody by Johnny Carson (1980)" – via YouTube.  53. ^ Frazier, Kendrick, ed. (July–August 2005). "Carl Sagan Takes Questions: More From His 'Wonder and Skepticism' CSICOP 1994 Keynote". Skeptical Inquirer. Amherst, NY: The Committee for Skeptical Inquiry. 29.4. Retrieved March 25, 2010.  54. ^ "Sagan". Dictionary.com Unabridged. Random House. Retrieved August 31, 2013. Jargon File 4.2.0.  55. ^ Safire, William (April 17, 1994). "Footprints on the Infobahn". The New York Times. Retrieved August 31, 2013.  56. ^ Gresshoff, P.M. (2004). "Scheel D. and Wasternack C.(eds) Plant Signal Transduction" (PDF). Annals of Botany (Book review). Oxford University Press. 93 (6): 783–784. doi:10.1093/aob/mch102. PMC 4242307. Retrieved August 31, 2013.  57. ^ "Christmas Lectures 1977: The Planets : Ri Channel". Ri Channel. London: Royal Institution of Great Britain. Retrieved February 7, 2012.  58. ^ Turco, R.P.; Toon, O.B.; Ackerman, T.P.; Pollack, J.B.; Sagan, C. (January 12, 1990). "Climate and smoke: an appraisal of nuclear winter". Science. Washington, D.C.: American Association for the Advancement of Science. 247 (4939): 166–176. Bibcode:1990Sci...247..166T. doi:10.1126/science.11538069. Retrieved August 31, 2013. JSTOR link to full text article. Carl Sagan discussed his involvement in the political nuclear winter debates and his erroneous global cooling prediction for the Gulf War fires in his book, The Demon-Haunted World.  59. ^ a b "The U.S. National Security State and Scientists'Challenge to Nuclear Weapons during the Cold War. Paul Harold Rubinson 2008" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on September 24, 2014.  60. ^ "Meet Carl Sagan". The Science Channel. Discovery Communications. Archived from the original on May 18, 2007. Retrieved August 31, 2013.  61. ^ Sagan, Carl. Recorded lecture at Cornell in 1994, from Pale Blue Dot: A Vision of the Human Future in Space, Ballantine Books (reprint) (1997) p. 88  62. ^ "PAGE 1 OF 2: Burning oil wells could be disaster, Sagan says January 23, 1991".  63. ^ Wilmington morning Star January 21'st, 1991  64. ^ Hirschmann, Kris. "The Kuwaiti Oil Fires". Facts on File. Archived from the original on January 2, 2014.  65. ^ "FIRST ISRAELI SCUD FATALITIES OIL FIRES IN KUWAIT". Nightline. yes. 1991-01-22. ABC.  66. ^ Sagan 1995, p. 257  67. ^ Head 2006, p. 86–87  68. ^ a b c Sagan, Carl; Ostro, Steven J. (Summer 1994). "Long-Range Consequences Of Interplanetary Collisions" (PDF). Issues in Science and Technology. Washington, D.C.: National Academy of Sciences. 10 (4): 67–72. Bibcode:1994IST....10...67S. ISSN 0748-5492. Archived from the original (PDF) on December 3, 2013. Retrieved August 31, 2013.  69. ^ a b "Chapter 18. The Marsh of Camarina - Pale Blue Dot: A Vision of the Human Future in Space". e-reading.club.  70. ^ Morrison, David (October 3, 2007). "Taking a Hit: Asteroid Impacts & Evolution". Astronomical Society of the Pacific (Podcast). Astronomical Society of the Pacific. Retrieved August 31, 2013.  71. ^ Gault, Matthew (28 November 2013). "When Earth Dreamed of Nuking the Moon". medium.com. War is Boring. Retrieved 28 November 2013.  72. ^ Sagan, Carl (writer/host) (November 9, 1980). "The Backbone of Night". Cosmos: A Personal Voyage. Episode 7. PBS.  73. ^ Dicke, William (December 21, 1996). "Carl Sagan, an Astronomer Who Excelled at Popularizing Science, Is Dead at 62". The New York Times. Retrieved August 31, 2013.  74. ^ Davidson, p. 202  75. ^ Davidson, p. 227  76. ^ Davidson, p. 341  77. ^ a b c d e Davidson, p. 203  78. ^ Davidson, p. 204  79. ^ a b Davidson, p. 297  80. ^ Druyan, Ann (November 2000). "A New Sense of the Sacred Carl Sagan's 'Cosmic Connection'". The Humanist. Washington, D.C.: American Humanist Association. 60 (6). Retrieved August 29, 2013.  81. ^ "YouTube". www.youtube.com.  82. ^ Spangenburg & Moser 2004, p. 106  83. ^ Morris, Julian (2000). Rethinking Risk and the Precautionary Principle. Butterworth-Heinemann. p. 116. ISBN 978-0-08-051623-3. Extract of page 116  84. ^ Women On War, Daniela Gioseffi.  85. ^ Brewster, Melanie E. (2014). Atheists in America (reprinted ed.). Columbia University Press. p. 102. ISBN 978-0-231-53700-1. Extract of page 102  86. ^ Maggio, Rosalie. How They Said it, Prentice-Hall Press (2000) p. 20  87. ^ "Photo of Asimov and Sagan".  88. ^ Dear Uncle Ezra, archived from the original on 2013-06-06, retrieved 2016-08-16  89. ^ Asimov, Isaac (1981) [Originally published 1980; Garden City, NY: Doubleday]. In Joy Still Felt: The Autobiography of Isaac Asimov, 1954–1978. New York: Avon. pp. 217, 302. ISBN 0-380-53025-2. LCCN 79003685. OCLC 7880716.  90. ^ Sagan, Carl (1980) [Originally published 1979]. Broca's Brain: Reflections on the Romance of Science (Reprint ed.). New York: Ballantine Books. p. 330. ISBN 0-345-33689-5. LCCN 78021810. OCLC 428008204.  91. ^ "Quotes on Religion – Carl Sagan". Atheism.about.com. IAC. Retrieved March 10, 2013.  92. ^ Head 2006, p. 70  93. ^ Schei, Kenneth A. (1996). An Atheist for Jesus. Synthesis. ISBN 0-926491-01-6.  94. ^ Sagan, Carl; Druyan, Ann (1997). The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark. Ballantine Books ISBN 0345409469  95. ^ Head, Tom (1997). "Conversations with Carl". Skeptic. The Skeptics Society. 13 (1): 32–38. Excerpted in Head 2006  96. ^ Sagan, Carl (1997) [Originally published 1995]. The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark (1st Ballantine Books ed.). New York: Ballantine Books. p. 278. ISBN 0-345-40946-9. LCCN 95034076. OCLC 36504316.  97. ^ Tracy, David (1990). "Kenosis, Sunyata, and Trinity: A Dialogue with Masao Abe". In Cobb, John B., Jr.; Ives, Christopher. The Emptying God: A Buddhist-Jewish-Christian Conversation. Faith Meets Faith Series. Essays by Masao Abe. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books. p. 52. ISBN 0-883-44670-7. LCCN 90031442. OCLC 318355646.[page verification needed]  98. ^ edited by Lynn Margulis, Dorion Sagan (2007). Dazzle Gradually: Reflections on the Nature of Nature. Chelsea Green Publishing. p. 14. ISBN 1933392312.CS1 maint: Extra text: authors list (link)  99. ^ Druyan, Ann (November–December 2003). "Ann Druyan Talks About Science, Religion, Wonder, Awe ... and Carl Sagan". Skeptical Inquirer. Amherst, NY: Committee for Skeptical Inquiry. 27.6. ISSN 0194-6730. Retrieved July 27, 2010.  100. ^ Sagan, Carl (writer/host) (December 14, 1980). "Encyclopaedia Galactica". Cosmos: A Personal Voyage. Episode 12. 01:24 minutes in. PBS.  101. ^ Rawson, Hugh (2008). "Sagan's Standard". The Unwritten Laws of Life. CSBC Ltd. Archived from the original on January 12, 2012. Retrieved September 1, 2013.  102. ^ Truzzi, Marcello (1978). "On the Extraordinary: An Attempt at Clarification" (PDF). Zetetic Scholar. 1 (1): 11.  103. ^ Truzzi, Marcello (1998). Binkowski, Edward, ed. "On Some Unfair Practices towards Claims of the Paranormal". Oxymoron: Annual Thematic Anthology of the Arts and Sciences. New York: Oxymoron Media, Inc. 2: The Fringe. ISSN 1090-2236. OCLC 35240974. Retrieved September 1, 2013.  104. ^ Flournoy, Théodore (1983) [Originally published 1899; Geneva: Édition Atar]. Des Indes à la Planète Mars: Étude sur un cas de Somnambulisme avec Glossolalie [From India to the Planet Mars: A Study of a Case of Somnambulism with Glossolalia] (in French). Introduction by Hélène Boursinhac; translation by Daniel B. Vermilye (Reprint ed.). Geneva: Éditions Slatkine. pp. 344–345. ISBN 2-05-100499-4. OCLC 11558608.  105. ^ Sagan 1980 (1985 ed.), p. 108  106. ^ Grinspoon, Lester (1994) [2nd ed. published 1977; Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press]. Marihuana Reconsidered. New introduction by author (2nd (reprint) ed.). Oakland, CA: Quick American Archives. ISBN 0-932551-13-0. LCCN 77076767. OCLC 32410025.  107. ^ Sagan, Carl. "Mr. X". Marijuana-Uses.com. Retrieved August 7, 2009.  108. ^ Whitehouse, David (October 15, 1999). "Carl Sagan: A life in the cosmos". BBC News. BBC. Retrieved August 30, 2013.  109. ^ Davidson, Keay (August 22, 1999). "Billions and Billions of '60s Flashbacks". The San Francisco Examiner. Retrieved May 2, 2007.  110. ^ Larsen, Dana (November 1, 1999). "Carl Sagan: toking astronomer". Cannabis Culture. Vancouver, B.C. Retrieved May 2, 2007.  111. ^ "Foundation Board of Directors". NORML.org. Washington, D.C.: NORML and the NORML Foundation. August 13, 2010. Archived from the original on January 4, 2011. Retrieved September 2, 2013.  112. ^ "Ann Druyan". NORML.org. Washington, D.C.: NORML and the NORML Foundation. Retrieved July 20, 2011.  113. ^ a b Poundstone 1999, p. 364  114. ^ a b Linzmayer, Owen; Chaffin, Bryan (November 15, 2004). "This Week in Apple History: November 14–20: McIntosh, IIe Killed, Butt-Head Astronomer". The Mac Observer. The Mac Observer, Inc. Retrieved July 23, 2012.  115. ^ Sagan v. Apple Computer, Inc., 874 F.Supp. 1072 (USDC C.D. Cal. 1994), CV 94-2180 LGB (BRx); 1994 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 20154.  116. ^ a b Poundstone 1999, p. 374  117. ^ Poundstone 1999, pp. 374–375  118. ^ Sagan, Carl (2000) [Originally published 1973]. "'Hello, Central Casting? Send Me Twenty Extraterrestrials'". Carl Sagan's Cosmic Connection: An Extraterrestrial Perspective. Produced by Jerome Agel; new contributions by Freeman Dyson, Ann Druyan, and David Morrison (2nd ed.). Cambridge; New York: Cambridge University Press. p. 183. ISBN 0-521-78303-8. LCCN 00020378. OCLC 460747781.  119. ^ a b Westrum, Ron (2000). "Limited Access: Six Natural Scientists and the UFO Phenomenon". In Jacobs, David M. UFOs and Abductions: Challenging the Borders of Knowledge. Lawrence, KS: University Press of Kansas. pp. 31–55. ISBN 0-7006-1032-4. LCCN 00028970. OCLC 43615835.  120. ^ Appelle, Stuart (2000). "Ufology and Academia: The UFO Phenomenon as a Scholarly Discipline". In Jacobs, David M. UFOs and Abductions: Challenging the Borders of Knowledge. Lawrence, KS: University Press of Kansas. pp. 7–30. ISBN 0-7006-1032-4. LCCN 00028970. OCLC 43615835.  121. ^ Sagan 1995, pp. 81–96, 99–104  122. ^ David Jacobs "The UFO Controversy In America" (1987), p.122-124  123. ^ Quarles, Norma (December 20, 1996). "Carl Sagan dies at 62". CNN. Retrieved December 5, 2011. Sagan was a noted astronomer whose lifelong passion was searching for intelligent life in the cosmos.  124. ^ Carl Sagan at Find a Grave  125. ^ "From the AHA archives: Carl Sagan's 1981 Humanist of the year speech". americanhumanist.org. Archived from the original on December 26, 2014. Retrieved December 25, 2014.  126. ^ "American Philosophical Society Member History". Philadelphia, PA: American Philosophical Society. Archived from the original on November 13, 2013. Retrieved September 3, 2013.  127. ^ Shore, Lys Ann (1987). "Controversies in Science and Fringe Science: From Animals and SETI to Quackery and SHC". The Skeptical Inquirer. 12 (1): 12–13.  128. ^ Karr, Barry (1994). "Five Honored with CSICOP Awards". Skeptical Inquirer. 18 (5): 461–462.  129. ^ "John F. Kennedy Astronautics Award". Springfield, VA: American Astronautical Society. Retrieved September 3, 2013.  130. ^ "The John W. Campbell Memorial Award". Lawrence, KS: Center for the Study of Science Fiction. Retrieved September 3, 2013.  131. ^ "Carl Sagan - 1975". The Joseph Priestley Award. Dickinson University. Retrieved 1 February 2017.  132. ^ https://history.nasa.gov/Pickering_508%20final_Part%202.pdf  133. ^ "Public Welfare Medal". Washington, D.C.: National Academy of Sciences. Archived from the original on August 9, 2013. Retrieved February 18, 2011.  134. ^ (PDF) http://www.eventsprotocol.ucla.edu/documents/RECIPIENalpha.pdf. Missing or empty |title= (help)  135. ^ Mascarenhas, Rohan (May 3, 2009). "2009 New Jersey Hall of Fame inductees welcomed at NJPAC". The Star-Ledger. Newark, NJ: Advance Publications. Retrieved September 3, 2013.  136. ^ "CSICOP becomes CSI after thirty years". Committee for Skeptical Inquiry. Committee for Skeptical Inquiry. 20 November 2006. Archived from the original on 15 August 2009.  137. ^ "The Pantheon of Skeptics". CSI. Committee for Skeptical Inquiry. Archived from the original on 31 January 2017. Retrieved 30 April 2017.  138. ^ "Sagan Planet Walk". sciencenter.org. Ithaca, NY: Sciencenter. Archived from the original on February 5, 2013. Retrieved March 10, 2013.  139. ^ "Sagan Award for Public Understanding of Science". Council of Scientific Society Presidents. Archived from the original on July 26, 2007. Retrieved May 2, 2007.  140. ^ "The 2007 IIG Awards". IIG. Los Angeles: Independent Investigations Group. August 18, 2007. Retrieved July 1, 2011.  141. ^ Boswell, John (November 9, 2009). A Glorious Dawn (7-in (17.5 cm) gramophone record). Nashville, TN: Third Man Records. Retrieved September 3, 2013.  142. ^ D'Orazio, Dante (30 November 2014). "Wonderful short film imagines the day when we conquer the solar system". The Verge. Retrieved 19 February 2016.  143. ^ David, Leonard (1 December 2014). "Epic Short Film 'Wanderers' Envisions Humanity's Future in Space". Space.com. Retrieved 21 February 2016.  144. ^ "Latest News - Nightwish – The Official Website". nightwish.com.  145. ^ "WARNER BROS. HEADS TO THE COSMOS WITH CARL SAGAN BIOPIC", Tracking Board, August 17, 2015  Further reading    - Terzian, Yervant; Bilson, Elizabeth, eds. (1997). Carl Sagan's Universe. Cambridge; New York: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-57603-2. LCCN 96040511. OCLC 36130681. - Achenbach, Joel (1999). Captured by Aliens: The Search for Life and Truth in a Very Large Universe. New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 0-684-84856-2. LCCN 99037592. OCLC 41606346. - Davidson, Keay (1999). Carl Sagan: A Life. New York: John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 0-471-25286-7. LCCN 99036206. OCLC 41580617. - Poundstone, William (1999). Carl Sagan: A Life in the Cosmos. New York: Henry Holt and Company. ISBN 0-8050-5766-8. LCCN 99014615. OCLC 40979822. - Spangenburg, Ray; Moser, Kit (2004). Carl Sagan: A Biography. Westport, CT: Greenwood Publishing Group. ISBN 0-313-32265-1. LCCN 2004015176. OCLC 55846272. - Head, Tom, ed. (2006). Conversations with Carl Sagan (1st ed.). Jackson, MS: University Press of Mississippi. ISBN 1-57806-736-7. LCCN 2005048747. OCLC 60375648. - Morrison, David (2006). "Carl Sagan: The People's Astronomer". AmeriQuests. Nashville, TN: Vanderbilt University. 3 (2). doi:10.15695/amqst.v3i2.84. ISSN 1553-4316. Archived from the original on January 14, 2015. Retrieved August 30, 2013.  External links  Carl Saganat Wikipedia's sister projects    - Definitions from Wiktionary  - Media from Wikimedia Commons  - Quotations from Wikiquote  - Texts from Wikisource     - The Carl Sagan Portal - Carl Sagan (1934-1996) Biographical memories - Sagan interviewed by Ted Turner, CNN, 1989, video: 44 minutes. - BBC Radio program "Great Lives" on Carl Sagan's life - "A man whose time has come"—Interview with Carl Sagan by Ian Ridpath, New Scientist, July 4, 1974 - Carl Sagan on IMDb  - Works by or about Carl Sagan in libraries (WorldCat catalog) - "Carl Sagan's Life and Legacy as Scientist, Teacher, and Skeptic", by David Morrison, Committee for Skeptical Inquiry - "A Tribute to Carl Sagan: Our Place in the Universe", by Bill Nye, The Skeptics Society - FBI Records: The Vault - Carl Sagan at fbi.gov - "NASA Technical Reports Server (NTRS) 19630011050: Direct Contact Among Galactic Civilizations by Relativistic Interstellar Spaceflight", Carl Sagan, when he was at Stanford University, in 1962, produced a controversial paper funded by a NASA research grant that concludes ancient alien intervention may have sparked human civilization. - Scientist of the Day-Carl Sagan at Linda Hall Library
Carol Gilligan (/ˈɡɪlɪɡən/; born November 28, 1936) is an American feminist, ethicist, and psychologist best known for her work on ethical community and ethical relationships, and certain subject-object problems in ethics.   She is a professor at New York University and a visiting professor at the University of Cambridge. She is teaching as a visiting professor at New York University, Abu Dhabi. She is best known for her 1982 work, In a Different Voice. Her work has been credited with inspiring the passage of the 1994 Gender Equity in Education Act.   In 1996, Time magazine listed her among America's 25 most influential people. She is the founder of ethics of care.
Carrie Jones is an American author, known for her work in young adult fiction. She has written both fantasy and non-fantasy novels, including the paranormal series Need. Jones has received multiple awards and appeared on the New York Times Best Seller list.
Carson McCullersMcCullers, photographed by Carl Van Vechten, 1959BornLula Carson Smith (1917-02-19)February 19, 1917 Columbus, Georgia, U.S.DiedSeptember 29, 1967(1967-09-29) (aged 50) Nyack, New York, U.S.OccupationNovelistEducationColumbus High School, New York University, Columbia University, Juilliard School of MusicGenreSouthern GothicNotable worksNovels: The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter  The Ballad of the Sad Café The Member of the WeddingSignature   Carson McCullers (February 19, 1917 – September 29, 1967) was an American novelist, short story writer, playwright, essayist, and poet. Her first novel, The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter, explores the spiritual isolation of misfits and outcasts in a small town of the U.S. South. Her other novels have similar themes and most are set in the deep South.   McCullers’ oeuvre is often described as Southern Gothic and indicative of her southern roots. However, McCullers penned all of her work after leaving the South, and critics also describe her writing and eccentric characters as universal in scope. Her stories have been adapted to stage and film. A stagework of her novel The Member of the Wedding (1946), which captures a young girl's feelings at her brother's wedding, made a successful Broadway run in 1950–51.
Catherynne M. Valente (born May 5, 1979) is an American fiction writer, poet, and literary critic. For her speculative fiction novels she has won the annual James Tiptree, Andre Norton, and Mythopoeic Fantasy Awards. Her short fiction has appeared in Clarkesworld Magazine, the World Fantasy Award–winning anthologies Salon Fantastique and Paper Cities, along with numerous Year's Best volumes. Her critical work has appeared in the International Journal of the Humanities as well as in numerous essay collections.
Cecelia Ahern (born 30 September 1981) is an Irish novelist whose work was first published in 2004. Ahern was born and grew up in Dublin. She is now published in nearly fifty countries, and has sold over 25 million copies of her novels worldwide. Two of her books have been adapted as films and she has created several TV series.   She and her books have won numerous awards, including the Irish Book Award for Popular Fiction for The Year I Met You.She has published several novels and contributed a number of short stories to various anthologies. Ahern also created and produced the ABC comedy Samantha Who? starring Christina Applegate.   She is a face of Littlewoods Ireland.
Chaim Potok (February 17, 1929 – July 23, 2002) was an American Jewish author and rabbi. Potok is most famous for his first book The Chosen (1967), which was listed on The New York Times’ best seller list for 39 weeks and sold more than 3,400,000 copies.
Champaklal (February 2, 1903 – May 9, 1992) was the devoted personal attendant to Sri Aurobindo and The Mother for over fifty years. He arrived at Pondicherry on 1921. From 1926 until 1938 he was the only other person apart from the Mother to see Sri Aurobindo on a daily basis.   While his service to Sri Aurobindo and the Mother, helping devotees seeking the Mother's blessings, and various other tasks, took up much of his time, he still found time to paint, and he was encouraged in this by the Mother.  References   - Champaklal Speaks Pondicherry: Sri Aurobindo Ashram Press, 1975 External links   - Champaklal - Champaklal as artist
Charlaine Harris Schulz (born November 25, 1951) is an American New York Times bestselling author who has been writing mysteries for thirty years. She was born and raised in the Mississippi River Delta area of the United States. She now lives in southern Arkansas with her husband and three children. Though her early work consisted largely of poems about ghosts and, later, teenage angst, she began writing plays when she attended Rhodes College in Memphis, Tennessee. She began to write books a few years later. Her later books have been in the urban fantasy genre. She is best known for The Southern Vampire Mysteries series, which HBO later adapted for its dramatic series entitled True Blood.
Charles de Lint (born December 22, 1951) is a Canadian writer of Dutch origins. He is married to—and plays music with—MaryAnn Harris.   Primarily a writer of fantasy fiction, he has written widely in the subgenres of urban fantasy, contemporary magical realism, and mythic fiction. Along with writers like Terri Windling, Emma Bull, and John Crowley, de Lint in the 1980s pioneered and popularized the genre of urban fantasy. He writes novels, novellas, short stories, poetry, and lyrics. His most famous works include: The Newford series of books (Dreams Underfoot, Widdershins, The Blue Girl, The Onion Girl, Moonlight and Vines, Someplace to be Flying etc.), as well as Moonheart, The Mystery of Grace, The Painted Boy and A Circle of Cats (children's book illustrated by Charles Vess). His distinctive style of fantasy draws upon local American folklore and European folklore; De Lint was influenced by many writers in the areas of mythology, folklore, and science fiction, including J.R.R. Tolkien, Lord Dunsany, William Morris, Mervyn Peake, James Branch Cabell, E.R. Eddison etc. Some of his mythic fiction poetry can be found online on the Endicott Studio website.   As an essayist/critic/folklorist he writes book reviews for The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction, has judged several literary awards, and has been a writer-in-residence for two public libraries.
Charles Frazier (born November 4, 1950) is an American novelist. He won the 1997 National Book Award for Fiction for Cold Mountain.
Charles Haddon Spurgeon (19 June 1834 – 31 January 1892) was an English Particular Baptist preacher. Spurgeon remains highly influential among Christians of various denominations, among whom he is known as the "Prince of Preachers". He was a strong figure in the Reformed Baptist tradition, defending the Church in agreement with the 1689 London Baptist Confession of Faith understanding, and opposing the liberal and pragmatic theological tendencies in the Church of his day.   Spurgeon was the pastor of the congregation of the New Park Street Chapel (later the Metropolitan Tabernacle) in London for 38 years. He was part of several controversies with the Baptist Union of Great Britain and later he left the denomination over doctrinal convictions. In 1867, he started a charity organisation which is now called Spurgeon's and works globally. He also founded Spurgeon's College, which was named after him posthumously.   Spurgeon was a great author of many types of works including sermons, one autobiography, commentaries, books on prayer, devotionals, magazines, poetry, hymns, and more. Many sermons were transcribed as he spoke and were translated into many languages during his lifetime. Spurgeon produced powerful sermons of penetrating thought and precise exposition. His oratory skills held his listeners spellbound in the Metropolitan Tabernacle and many Christians hold his writings in exceptionally high regard among devotional literature.
Charles Lamb (10 February 1775 – 27 December 1834) was an English essayist, poet, and antiquarian, best known for his Essays of Elia and for the children's book Tales from Shakespeare, co-authored with his sister, Mary Lamb (1764–1847).   Friends with such literary luminaries as Samuel Taylor Coleridge, William Wordsworth, and William Hazlitt, Lamb was at the centre of a major literary circle in England. He has been referred to by E. V. Lucas, his principal biographer, as "the most lovable figure in English literature".
Charles Lutwidge Dodgson (/ˈlʌtwɪdʒ ˈdɒdʒsən/; 27 January 1832 – 14 January 1898), better known by his pen name Lewis Carroll, was an English writer of world-famous children's fiction, notably Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and its sequel Through the Looking-Glass. He was noted for his facility at word play, logic and fantasy. The poems Jabberwocky and The Hunting of the Snark are classified in the genre of literary nonsense. He was also a mathematician, photographer, and Anglican deacon.   Carroll came from a family of high church Anglicans, and developed a long relationship with Christ Church, Oxford, where he lived for most of his life as a scholar and teacher. Alice Liddell, daughter of the Dean of Christ Church, Henry Liddell, is widely identified as the original for Alice in Wonderland, though Carroll always denied this.
Charles Pierre Baudelaire (UK: /ˈboʊdəlɛər/, US: /ˌboʊd(ə)ˈlɛər/; French: [ʃaʁl bodlɛʁ] (; April 9, 1821 – August 31, 1867) was a French poet who also produced notable work as an essayist, art critic, and pioneering translator of Edgar Allan Poe.   His most famous work, a book of lyric poetry titled Les Fleurs du mal (The Flowers of Evil), expresses the changing nature of beauty in modern, and rapidly industrializing Paris during the mid-19th century. Baudelaire's highly original style of prose-poetry influenced a whole generation of poets including Paul Verlaine, Arthur Rimbaud and Stéphane Mallarmé, among many others. He is credited with coining the term "modernity" (modernité) to designate the fleeting, ephemeral experience of life in an urban metropolis, and the responsibility of artistic expression to capture that experience.
Charlotte Brontë (/ˈbrɒnti/, commonly /-teɪ/; 21 April 1816 – 31 March 1855) was an English novelist and poet, the eldest of the three Brontë sisters who survived into adulthood and whose novels became classics of English literature.   She enlisted in school at Roe Head in January 1831, aged 14 years. She left the year after to teach her sisters, Emily and Anne, at home, returning in 1835 as a governess. In 1839 she undertook the role as governess for the Sidgwick family, but left after a few months to return to Haworth where the sisters opened a school, but failed to attract pupils. Instead they turned to writing and they each first published in 1846 under the pseudonyms of Currer, Ellis and Acton Bell. Her first novel The Professor was rejected by publishers, her second novel Jane Eyre was published in 1847. The sisters admitted to their Bell pseudonyms in 1848, and by the following year were celebrated in London literary circles.   Brontë experienced the early deaths of all her siblings. She became pregnant shortly after her marriage in June 1854 but died on 31 March 1855 of tuberculosis or possibly typhus.
Charlotte Grayson/Clarke - Initially, Emily and Charlotte had no interactions, until Emily discovered Charlotte was her half-sister from Mason Treadwell's interview tapes, and they grow close. Charlotte becomes one of the few people Emily seeks to protect from her revenge scheme. Charlotte developed an addiction to oxycodone, and she attempted suicide in the first season finale, though Emily's reaction to this was never depicted. At one point, Emily attempts to console Charlotte on her porch swing by telling Charlotte a story she remembers from her childhood that she claims Amanda told her. Charlotte trusted Emily enough to tell her that Victoria was alive and in hiding. Emily is shown to realize the relationship she is missing with Charlotte by posing as the real Emily Thorne, and vice versa. When Charlotte announces her decision to change her surname to Clarke on her 18th birthday, Emily is seen smiling. Animosity develops on Charlotte's part towards Emily when she discovers her pregnancy was false, and continues in spite of Emily revealing her true identity as her sister. Charlotte is so angered that she subdues Emily in the Stowaway and sets it ablaze in an attempt to kill her. Emily decides to forgive Charlotte, who later calls on her for help when she accidentally kills a man she had slept with, who threatened her father. Taking Emily's advice, Charlotte leaves for rehab. Nolan Ross - Emily met Nolan when he released her from juvenile detention in 2002. He gave her the Infinity Box, which contained her father's possessions and proof of his innocence. Years later, when Emily returns to the Hamptons, Nolan offers his assistance, which she initially refuses. Despite being antagonistic with him at the start, Emily finds his technical genius and ability to be quite useful, though her plans put him in physical danger numerous times. She later warms to him and accepts him as a friend and trusted ally. Nolan also acts as her conscience and tries to reason with her when he feels she is taking things too far. Nolan considers Emily to be family, going so far as to give up Nolcorp, his company, to Grayson Global to prevent a forensic investigation that would expose Emily. Nolan affectionately refers to Emily as "Ems". Some fans support a romantic relationship between Nolan and Emily. While Gabriel Mann has entertained the prospect of "Nemily", creator Mike Kelley and VanCamp are opposed to the idea, considering Nolan and Emily to have a sibling relationship. Daniel Grayson- As part of her revenge scheme, Emily planned to seduce Daniel and marry him to gain access to Grayson Global, in order to find evidence of her father's innocence. However, this is complicated by real feelings that Emily develops for him. They become engaged midway through the first season, although Daniel's decision to conceal his father's part in framing David Clarke ruins her love for him. The engagement ends when Ashley tells Daniel she saw Emily and Jack kissing. However, Daniel never quite gets over Emily, and she still views him as someone useful. They reunite, with Emily asking to take it slow, although she has a dream at one point where they engage in passionate sex. They become engaged again in season 2 and marry in the first part of season 3. However, on their honeymoon boat Daniel discovers Emily has been using him and shoots her off in a drunken rage. Emily becomes sterile as a result of these wounds, but stays in the marriage through blackmail for a little longer. After Daniel learns Emily's real identity, they become cordially, if not exactly friendly. Daniel finally understands why she used him, although he still resents her. Daniel overhears Emily fighting with Kate Taylor and runs to her assistance, taking a fatal gunshot wound for her. In his final moments, Emily holds him and admits that despite all that happened everything that the two shared was real. Aiden Mathis - Emily met Aiden in 2006 at a New York nightclub when she was sent by Satoshi Takeda to access the kidnapper of Aiden's sister Colleen. Emily stops him from killing his sister's kidnapper twice and puts herself in physical danger to rescue him. Two years later, a flashback shows that Aiden was recruited by Takeda and that he and Emily had begun a relationship, a weakness Aiden exploited in their training. Aiden prepares to leave when Takeda locates his sister, and chooses to bring Emily, although he instead leaves her behind. This causes Emily to become embittered towards him in season 2, rejecting his attempts to reconcile. She eventually forgives Aiden and they rekindle their relationship. The two argue often, but have a deep love for one another. Aiden wishes for Emily to finish her revenge so that they can be together. This dream is shattered, however, when Victoria murders Aiden in cold blood. Amanda Clarke - "Amanda Clarke", or the real Emily Thorne, was Emily's cellmate in juvenile detention. Initially, the two often engaged in physical fights, although they later became friends at the suggestion of their warden. Emily visits her friend in juvie and they agree to switch identities in return for $500,000. Eight years later, "Amanda" reunites with Emily when she murders Frank Stevens after he discovers their secret. Amanda then begins to complicate Emily's plans by becoming involved with Jack Porter and thus endangering him to the Graysons. Though the two have a rivalry, Amanda stands by her vow to "do anything" for Emily. Tyler later kidnaps Amanda and turns her against Emily, although she ultimately remains loyal to Emily and disappears from the Hamptons for several months. By the time she returns, she is six months pregnant with Jack's child, which breaks Emily's heart. Amanda, freshly trained by Takeda as an asset to Emily remains loyal even after she nearly loses her baby in a fall. At her son's baptism, she notices Emily's misery and believes she deserves a family like hers, a claim Emily rebuffs. Amanda desired to confess her identity to Jack, feeling guilt for stealing him from Emily, although Emily advised against it. In her dying moments, Amanda returns a locket necklace that Emily gave her years ago and thanks her for giving her a "real family". Emily is incredibly devastated after Amanda's death, which fuels her to refocus her revenge back onto the Graysons. Kara Wallace Clarke - Emily had very few memories of her mother, who she believed dead of an illness unknown to her. After learning that she is in fact alive, Emily postpones her revenge plan and goes so far as to put Amanda's life on the line to locate her mother, only to be disappointed when she finally resurfaces. As a child, Kara's psychological issues led her to attempt to drown Emily, and to keep her from danger Kara left the Clarke family, David lying that she succumbed to her sickness. Despite Kara believing Amanda is her daughter, Emily attempts to build a friendly relationship with her mother through Amanda's son. Emily even visits Victoria to give her a wedding gift, which is really a ploy to see her mother for the "last" time. While she loves her mother, Emily knows that she is a danger to those around her and convinces her to leave the Hamptons after Aiden stops her from murdering the Graysons when she learns the truth about David. As Emily watches Kara leaving, she has a flashback where her mother sings to her as a child. Gordon Murphy - As the killer of her father, Emily resents Murphy. It did not appear as if Emily was interested in identifying her father's killer until she listened into a conversation between Murphy and Conrad Grayson, which revealed their involvement in David's murder. Deciding that she will kill Murphy, the only time she has ever expressed interest in murdering someone herself, she reveals herself as Amanda Clarke to him and is brought to his secret torture chamber, where they engage in a fight, though she chooses to honor her father by not going through with the killing. This in turn leads to the destruction of the evidence Emily had accumulated when Murphy detonates the plane carrying Lydia and Victoria. Although Murphy meets with the Graysons a few times after the fight with Emily, for unknown reasons he does not reveal her identity to them. In season 2, Murphy asks Emily for tapes that will exonerate him as the "kidnapper" of Victoria, but when she asks for her mother he attempts to kill her only to be killed by Aiden Mathis. Emily later learns that Murphy is her stepfather through marriage to Kara Clarke. Satoshi Takeda - Takeda recruited Emily after she was referred to him by Warden Stiles. From what has been seen thus far, it appears that while she could often be frustrated with Takeda, she still deeply respected him. In the present day, they have more differences and argue more often. Examples of this are when Takeda chastises her for being in love with Daniel and their fight in her home when he reveals he is Tyler's murderer and that he framed Daniel and Jack. At the start of season 2, after Aiden stops Emily from intentionally drowning (as a method of remembering her mother), Takeda disapproves of her desire to find her mother as it conflicts with revenge for her father. To this, Emily replies that after she learns her mother's fate, she will take down everyone who kept them apart, Takeda included. She also angrily thinks Takeda sent her a "nanny" in the form of Aiden when he comes to the Hamptons to help her. Takeda returns to the Hamptons months later and attempts to take Aiden away after revealing his past to Daniel, for which Emily scolds him. Takeda refuses to allow her and Aiden to help him prevent the Initiative's attack. In spite of Takeda's faults as perceived by Emily, she cries bitterly upon finding his body. Emily would later learn that Takeda was using her and Aiden to avenge the death of his fiancé, an unrecorded passenger on Flight 197. Reception   The choice of VanCamp to portray the character was generally well-received among critics, with Scott Pierce of The Salt Lake Tribune citing VanCamp's past involvement with Everwood and Brothers & Sisters as helping audiences contrast Thorne's sympathetic appearance with her ruthless pursuit of vengeance. VanCamp's portrayal of the character has been praised by several critics for how she has depicted Thorne's charming and duplicitous nature. Daniel Fienberg of HitFix has been more negative regarding the portrayal of the character. When the show premiered Fienberg stated that, while he was appreciative of VanCamp's work on other shows, he felt she was "passive" in the role of Thorne and that she portrayed the character as "robotically efficient", which made Thorne a less sympathetic character for him.   Catherine Weagle of the Salem State Log criticized VanCamp's portrayal, stating that Thorne's "revenge glare" was not sufficiently intimidating and also found it implausible that Thorne would be able to keep her true identity a secret. An initial review by Maureen Ryan of AOLTV was negative regarding the portrayal of the character, though Ryan faulted the premise of the show as making it difficult for VanCamp to portray Thorne realistically. Ryan became more positive about the character's portrayal as the show progressed stating that VanCamp had "made Emily more interesting than the character almost has a right to be."   Thorne's voice-over narrations during the show were described by Stephanie Goldberg of CNN as "insightful" and as being able to get the support of viewers, but other commentators have criticized the narrations as cliché and formulaic. Fienberg stated that the narrations were devoid of meaning and attributed it to ABC having "an in-house style that says that having your female lead narrate nothingness at the start of every episode is a worthy strategy", which he stated does not provide a good setting for a story about revenge.   Some critics favorably compared the role of Thorne on Revenge to that of Dexter Morgan on the Showtime series Dexter. Tierney Bricker of E! states that, like Dexter, Thorne captivates audiences even when they may not support her actions. In a review of the episode "Infamy" for ChicagoNow, Andrew Daglas noted the portrayal of Thorne burning down Treadwell's home in the episode and suggested that Thorne's actions would prompt audiences to question their sympathies for the character's pursuit of revenge. Daglas then states that the character of Dexter has prompted similar questions, adding that in both series the characters force viewers "to realize how easily our darkest impulses can bubble up to the surface, and how those impulses become more dangerous when they're wrapped in a nobler guise like justice."  In other media   In early 2014, it was announced that Marvel Comics and ABC Studios had plans to jointly develop a comic book inspired by Revenge that detailed the origin of Emily Thorne. Co-authored by Ted Sullivan (a writer for the show) and Erica Schultz, and illustrated by Vincenzo Balzano, Dustin Nguyen, and Felix Ruiz, Revenge: The Secret Origin of Emily Thorne was published September 2, 2014. The story is set in Switzerland years before the events of the television series and follows Emily/Amanda on her first revenge mission, aided by her mentor Takeda. Marvel has stated that the comic's plot is considered canon.  Notes    1. ^ Letizia says that Emily was imprisoned for ten years, while according to episode 3 of season 1, Emily was only imprisoned for two years, from ages 16 to 18. "Ten years" comes from the pilot episode in which Emily tell Nolan she hadn't seen her father for ten years.  References    1. ^ "Revenge - Preview Clip: Revenge Season 2, Episode 9, "Revelations," Sneak Peek — Emily and Jack Share a Glance in Church (VIDEO) - Video". Wetpaint.com. 2012-11-29. Retrieved 2013-01-04.  2. ^ "ABC: Charlie's Angels on Thursdays, Once Upon a Time on Sundays - IGN". Au.tv.ign.com. 2011-05-17. Retrieved 2013-01-04.  3. ^ a b c d Keveney, Bill (13 February 2012). "'Revenge' is sweet for stars, ABC and fans seeking escape". USA Today. Retrieved 8 October 2012.  4. ^ Cuthbertson, Ian (26 March 2012). "The good, the bad and the vengeful". The Australian. Retrieved 8 October 2012.  5. ^ Abrams, Natalie (11 October 2011). "Emily VanCamp: Emily Thorne Isn't the Only One Getting Revenge". TV Guide. Retrieved 8 October 2012.  6. ^ Vickery, Colin (7 February 2012). "Emily Vancamp's sweet revenge in prime-soap premiering on Channel Seven on Monday". The Daily Telegraph (Sydney). Retrieved 1 October 2012.  7. ^ Letizia, Anthony. "Revenge and The Count of Monte Cristo". alterna-TV.com. Archived from the original on 17 August 2012. Retrieved 4 October 2012.  8. ^ a b Rodman, Sarah (21 September 2011). "In 'Revenge,' a killer time in the Hamptons". The Boston Globe. Retrieved 9 October 2012.  9. ^ a b Pierce, Scott D. (21 September 2011). "Review: "Revenge" looks like delicious TV fun". Salt Lake Tribune. Retrieved 9 October 2012.  10. ^ Seibel, Deborah Starr (15 January 2012). "Sweet 'Revenge'". New York Post. Retrieved 14 October 2012.  11. ^ Masaki, Lyle (16 December 2011). "The Year in Television: Our Three Favorite New Dramas". AfterElton. Archived from the original on 18 November 2012. Retrieved 14 October 2012.  12. ^ "Revenge - Revenge Season 2 Spoiler: Will Nolan Ross Find Love With a Woman? Mike Kelley Tells All!". Wetpaint.com. 2012-07-27. Retrieved 2013-01-04.  13. ^ "Revenge Creator: [Spoiler Alert] Will Never Kiss! But Guess Which Love Triangle Is So On? | E! Online". Ca.eonline.com. 2012-02-29. Retrieved 2013-01-04.  14. ^ "Revenge - Who Is Emily Thorne's True Love on Revenge? Actress Emily VanCamp Dishes!". Wetpaint.com. 2012-07-31. Retrieved 2013-01-04.  15. ^ a b Bricker, Tierney (7 September 2011). "Fall TV Preview: Meet Your New Favorite Guilty Pleasure...Revenge". E!. Retrieved 14 October 2012.  16. ^ a b Fienberg, Daniel (21 September 2011). "TV Review: ABC's 'Revenge'". HitFix. Retrieved 14 October 2012.  17. ^ Weagle, Catherine (18 November 2011). "ABC's New Drama "Revenge" Leaves Viewers Wanting More". Salem State Log. Archived from the original on 21 April 2013. Retrieved 14 October 2012.  18. ^ Ryan, Maureen (20 September 2011). "Review: 'Revenge' Promises Soapy Escapism, But Does Emily VanCamp's Show Deliver?". AOLTV. Retrieved 14 October 2012.  19. ^ Ryan, Maureen (9 November 2011). "'Revenge' on ABC Is Sweet: Let Us Count the Ways". AOLTV. Retrieved 14 October 2012.  20. ^ Goldberg, Stephanie (2 December 2011). "Obsessions: How ABC's 'Revenge' snuck up on us". CNN. Retrieved 14 October 2012.  21. ^ Seitz, Matt Zoller (21 September 2011). ""Revenge" is a dish that serves itself in bits and pieces". Salon. Retrieved 14 October 2012.  22. ^ Daglas, Andrew (14 January 2012). "Revenge: "Infamy" - Burnin' Down The House". ChicagoNow. Retrieved 14 October 2012.  23. ^ "Discovers Secrets in the Revenge Original Graphic Novel". Marvel Entertainment. February 18, 2014. Retrieved 5 November 2014.  24. ^ Revenge: The Secret Origin of Emily Thorne. Amazon.ca. ASIN 0785190392.  25. ^ a b Lueng, Jason. "Marvel Comics First Look: "The Secret Origin of Emily Thorne"". ABC Studios. The Walt Disney Company. Archived from the original on 6 November 2014. Retrieved 5 November 2014.  26. ^ Truitt, Brian. "ABC's 'Revenge' soap opera spills into graphic novel". USA Today. Gannett Company. Retrieved 5 November 2014.  External links   - Emily Thorne on IMDb
Cheryl Strayed (/ˈstreɪd/; née Nyland; born September 17, 1968) is an American memoirist, novelist, essayist and podcast host. The author of four books, her award-winning writing has been published widely in anthologies and major magazines.
Children5, including Ronan FarrowRelativesLetty Aronson (sister)AwardsSee Awards and NominationsComedy careerMediumStand-up, film, television, theatre, booksGenresObservational comedy, satire, black comedy, self-deprecation, deadpanSignatureWebsitewoodyallen.com   Heywood "Woody" Allen (born Allan Stewart Konigsberg; December 1, 1935) is an American director, writer, actor, and comedian whose career spans more than six decades. He began his career as a comedy writer in the 1950s, writing jokes and scripts for television and publishing several books of short humor pieces. In the early 1960s, Allen began performing as a stand-up comedian, emphasizing monologues rather than traditional jokes. As a comedian, he developed the persona of an insecure, intellectual, fretful nebbish, which he maintains is quite different from his real-life personality. In 2004, Comedy Central ranked Allen fourth on a list of the 100 greatest stand-up comedians, while a UK survey ranked Allen as the third-greatest comedian.   By the mid-1960s, Allen was writing and directing films, first specializing in slapstick comedies before moving into dramatic material influenced by European art cinema during the 1970s, and alternating between comedies and dramas to the present. He is often identified as part of the New Hollywood wave of filmmakers of the mid-1960s to late 1970s. Allen often stars in his films, typically in the persona he developed as a standup. Some of the best-known of his over 50 films are Annie Hall (1977), Manhattan (1979), Hannah and Her Sisters (1986), and Crimes and Misdemeanors (1989). In 2007 he said Stardust Memories (1980), The Purple Rose of Cairo (1985), and Match Point (2005) were his best films. Critic Roger Ebert described Allen as "a treasure of the cinema".   Allen has received many accolades and honors throughout his career. He has won four Academy Awards: three for Best Original Screenplay and one for Best Director. He also garnered nine British Academy Film Awards. His screenplay for Annie Hall was named the funniest screenplay by the Writers Guild of America in its list of the "101 Funniest Screenplays". In 2011, PBS televised the film biography Woody Allen: A Documentary on the American Masters TV series.
children's author, political cartoonist, and animator, best known for his work writing and illustrating more than 60 books under the pen name Doctor Seuss (abbreviated Dr. Seuss) (/suːs/). His work includes many of the most popular children's books of all time, selling over 600 million copies and being translated into more than 20 languages by the time of his death.     Geisel adopted the name "Dr. Seuss" as an undergraduate at Dartmouth College and as a graduate student at Lincoln College, Oxford. He left Oxford in 1927 to begin his career as an illustrator and cartoonist for Vanity Fair, Life, and various other publications. He also worked as an illustrator for advertising campaigns, most notably for FLIT and Standard Oil, and as a political cartoonist for the New York newspaper PM. He published his first children's book And to Think That I Saw It on Mulberry Street in 1937. During World War II, he took a brief hiatus from children's literature to illustrate political cartoons, and he also worked in the animation and film department of the United States Army where he wrote, produced or animated many productions – both live-action and animated – including Design for Death, which later won the 1947 Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature.   After the war, Geisel returned to writing children's books, writing classics like If I Ran the Zoo (1950), Horton Hears a Who! (1955), If I Ran the Circus (1956), The Cat in the Hat (1957), How the Grinch Stole Christmas! (1957), and Green Eggs and Ham (1960). He published over 60 books during his career, which have spawned numerous adaptations, including 11 television specials, five feature films, a Broadway musical, and four television series.   Geisel won the Lewis Carroll Shelf Award in 1958 for Horton Hatches the Egg and again in 1961 for And to Think That I Saw It on Mulberry Street. Geisel's birthday, March 2, has been adopted as the annual date for National Read Across America Day, an initiative on reading created by the National Education Association.
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie (/ˌtʃɪmɑːˈmɑːndə əŋˈɡoʊzi əˈdiːtʃeɪ/ (;; born on 15 September 1977) is a Nigerian novelist, writer of short stories, and nonfiction. She has written the novels Purple Hibiscus (2003), Half of a Yellow Sun (2006), and Americanah (2013), the short story collection The Thing Around Your Neck (2009), and the book-length essay We Should All Be Feminists (2014).   In 2008, Adichie was awarded a MacArthur Genius Grant. She was described in The Times Literary Supplement as "the most prominent" of a "procession of critically acclaimed young anglophone authors  is succeeding in attracting a new generation of readers to African literature". Her most recent book, Dear Ijeawele, or a Feminist Manifesto in Fifteen Suggestions, was published in March 2017.
Christian Johann Heinrich Heine (German: [ˈhaɪnʁɪç ˈhaɪnə]; 13 December 1797 – 17 February 1856) was a German-Jewish poet, journalist, essayist, and literary critic. He is best known outside of Germany for his early lyric poetry, which was set to music in the form of Lieder (art songs) by composers such as Robert Schumann and Franz Schubert. Heine's later verse and prose are distinguished by their satirical wit and irony. He is considered part of the Young Germany movement. His radical political views led to many of his works being banned by German authorities, which however only added to his fame. Heine spent the last 25 years of his life as an expatriate in Paris.
Christian Wiman is an American poet and editor born in 1966 and raised in the small west Texas town of Snyder. He graduated from Washington and Lee University and has taught at Northwestern University, Stanford University, Lynchburg College in Virginia, and the Prague School of Economics. In 2003, he became editor of the oldest American magazine of verse, Poetry, a role he stepped down from in June 2013. Wiman now teaches Literature and Religion at Yale University and the Yale Institute of Sacred Music.   His first book of poetry, The Long Home (Story Line Press, 1997) and reprinted by Copper Canyon Press (2007), won the Nicholas Roerich Prize. His 2010 book, Every Riven Thing (Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2010), was chosen by poet and critic Dan Chiasson as one of the best poetry books of 2010. His book Ambition and Survival: Becoming a Poet (Copper Canyon Press, 2007) reviewed by The New York Times Sunday Book Review, is "a collection of personal essays and critical prose on a wide range of subjects: reading Paradise Lost in Guatemala, recalling violent episodes from the poet's youth, traveling in Africa with an eccentric father, as well as a series of penetrating essays on poets, poetry, and poetry's place in our lives. The book concludes with a portrait of Wiman's diagnosis with a rare cancer, and a clear-eyed declaration of what it means — for an artist and a person — to have faith in the face of death."   His poems, criticism, and personal essays appear widely in such magazines as The Atlantic, Harper’s, The New York Times Book Review, The New Yorker and The Sewanee Review. Clive James describes Wiman’s poems as being “insistent on being read aloud, in a way that so much from America is determined not to be. His rhymes and line-turnovers are all carefully placed to intensify the speech rhythms, making everything dramatic: not shoutingly so, but with a steady voice that tells an ideal story every time.”
Christine de Pizan (also seen as de Pisan; French pronunciation: [kʁistin də pizɑ̃] ( ; 1364 – c. 1430) was an Italian and French author. She is best remembered for defending women in The Book of the City of Ladies and The Treasure of the City of Ladies. Pizan was a prominent moralist and political thinker in medieval France. Pizan's patrons included Louis of Orleans, Philip the Bold and John the Fearless. She served as a court writer during the reign of Charles VI. Her books of advice to princesses, princes and knights remained in print until the 16th century.   In recent decades, Pizan's work has been returned to prominence by the efforts of scholars such as Charity Cannon Willard, Earl Jeffrey Richards and Simone de Beauvoir.
Christopher Moore is the name of:    - Chris Moore (businessman), CEO of Domino's Pizza UK & IRL - Christopher Moore (author) (born 1957), American author - Christopher G. Moore (born 1952), Canadian author - Christopher I. Moore, Brown University neuroscientist - Christopher Moore (Canadian historian) (born 1950), author and journalist - Chris Moore (producer/audio engineer) (born 1973), American record producer/audio engineer - Chris Moore (illustrator) (born 1947), English illustrator particularly noted for science fiction book covers - Chris Moore (film producer), American film producer - Chris Moore (footballer, born 1980), Welsh footballer currently playing for Chelmsford City - Chris Moore (footballer, born 1984), English footballer, played for Bishop Auckland, Darlington, Durham City, Gateshead, Spennymoor Town & Whitley Bay - Chris Masters (born 1983), American professional wrestler, also known as Chris Moore - Christopher Moore (born 1993), Young Money Entertainment recording artist better known by his stage name, Lil Twist - Christopher Liam Moore (born 1964), American actor - Christopher Moore (DJ) (born 1941), British/American radio broadcaster for Radio Carolina - Chris Moore (broadcaster) (born 1960) CBS Sports Radio Talk Show Host,"Mojo On CBS" - Christopher Moore (sculptor) (1790–1863), Irish-born sculptor - Chris Moore (American football) (born 1993), American football wide receiver - Christopher Moore (Australian musician), Australian viola player - Christopher Moore (Minister), founder of the Chicago Children's Choir See also   - Christopher More (c. 1480–1549), politician
Christopher Morley (5 May 1890 – 28 March 1957) was an American journalist, novelist, essayist and poet. He also produced stage productions for a few years and gave college lectures.
Christopher Pike is the name of:    - Christopher Pike (author) (born 1955), author who specializes in young adult thrillers - Christopher Pike (Star Trek), a character in the fictional Star Trek universe - Chris Pike (born 1961), Welsh former professional footballer See also   - Christian Pike, American neuroscientist
CiceroSubjectPolitics, law, philosophy, rhetoricLiterary movementGolden Age Latin Eclectic philosophyNotable worksOrations: In Verrem, In Catilinam I–IV Philosophy: De Oratore, De re publica, De Natura Deorum, De Officiis   - v - t - e   Marcus Tullius Cicero[n 1] (/ˈsɪsəroʊ/; Classical Latin: [ˈmaːr.kʊs ˈtʊl.lɪ.ʊs ˈkɪ.kɛ.roː]; 3 January 106 BC – 7 December 43 BC) was a Roman statesman, orator, lawyer and philosopher, who served as consul in the year 63 BC. He came from a wealthy municipal family of the Roman equestrian order, and is considered one of Rome's greatest orators and prose stylists.   His influence on the Latin language was so immense that the subsequent history of prose, not only in Latin but in European languages up to the 19th century, was said to be either a reaction against or a return to his style. Cicero introduced the Romans to the chief schools of Greek philosophy and created a Latin philosophical vocabulary (with neologisms such as evidentia, humanitas, qualitas, quantitas, and essentia) distinguishing himself as a translator and philosopher.   Though he was an accomplished orator and successful lawyer, Cicero believed his political career was his most important achievement. It was during his consulship that the second Catilinarian conspiracy attempted to overthrow the government through an attack on the city by outside forces, and Cicero suppressed the revolt by summarily and controversially executing five conspirators. During the chaotic latter half of the 1st century BC marked by civil wars and the dictatorship of Gaius Julius Caesar, Cicero championed a return to the traditional republican government. Following Julius Caesar's death, Cicero became an enemy of Mark Antony in the ensuing power struggle, attacking him in a series of speeches. He was proscribed as an enemy of the state by the Second Triumvirate and consequently executed by soldiers operating on their behalf in 43 BC after having been intercepted during an attempted flight from the Italian peninsula. His severed hands and head were then, as a final revenge of Mark Antony, displayed in the Roman Forum.   Petrarch's rediscovery of Cicero's letters is often credited for initiating the 14th-century Renaissance in public affairs, humanism, and classical Roman culture. According to Polish historian Tadeusz Zieliński, "the Renaissance was above all things a revival of Cicero, and only after him and through him of the rest of Classical antiquity." The peak of Cicero's authority and prestige came during the 18th-century Enlightenment, and his impact on leading Enlightenment thinkers and political theorists such as John Locke, David Hume, Montesquieu and Edmund Burke was substantial. His works rank among the most influential in European culture, and today still constitute one of the most important bodies of primary material for the writing and revision of Roman history, especially the last days of the Roman Republic.
Clarice Lispector (December 10, 1920 – December 9, 1977) was a Brazilian novelist and short story writer acclaimed internationally for her innovative novels and short stories. Born to a Jewish family in Podolia in Western Ukraine, as an infant she moved to Brazil with her family, amidst the disasters engulfing her native land following the First World War.   She grew up in Recife, the capital of the northeastern state of Pernambuco, where her mother died when she was nine. The family moved to Rio de Janeiro when she was in her teens. While in law school in Rio, she began publishing her first journalistic work and short stories, catapulting to fame at the age of 23 with the publication of her first novel, Near the Wild Heart (Perto do Coração Selvagem), written as an interior monologue in a style and language that was considered revolutionary in Brazil.   She left Brazil in 1944, following her marriage to a Brazilian diplomat, and spent the next decade and a half in Europe and the United States. After returning to Rio de Janeiro in 1959, she began producing her most famous works, including the stories of Family Ties (Laços de Família), the great mystic novel The Passion According to G.H. (A Paixão Segundo G.H.), and what is arguably her masterpiece, Água Viva. Injured in an accident in 1966, she spent the last decade of her life in frequent pain, steadily writing and publishing novels and stories until her premature death in 1977.   She has been the subject of numerous books, and references to her and her work are common in Brazilian literature and music. Several of her works have been turned into films. In 2009, the American writer Benjamin Moser published Why This World: A Biography of Clarice Lispector. Since that publication, her works have been the object of an extensive project of retranslation, published by New Directions Publishing and Penguin Modern Classics, the first Brazilian to enter that prestigious series. Moser, who is also the editor of her anthology The Complete Stories (2015), describes Lispector as the most important Jewish writer in the world since Kafka.
Clarissa Pinkola Estés (born January 27, 1945) is an American poet, Jungian psychoanalyst, post-trauma recovery specialist, author and spoken word artist.
Claudia Gray is the pseudonym of Amy Vincent, an American writer of paranormal romance young adult fiction, best known for the Evernight series and her Star Wars novels, Star Wars: Lost Stars, Star Wars: Bloodline, Leia, Princess of Alderaan and Star Wars: Master and Aprentice.
Claudia Pavel (born October 19, 1984, in Mangalia), alias Claudia Cream, is a Romanian pop singer and dancer. Pavel has had a string of hit music albums and music singles in Romania and is considered one of Romania's most successful and popular singers of the 2000s. Pavel speaks fluent Romanian, Greek, and English also some Turkish. Claudia Pavel was vying to represent Romania in the Eurovision Song Contest 2011 in Germany with the entry "I Want U to Want Me", in the national final on December 31, 2010 she came in 10th place.   Pavel has also been a member of popular pop group "Candy".
Clinton Richard Dawkins, FRS FRSL (born 26 March 1941) is an English ethologist, evolutionary biologist, and author. He is an emeritus fellow of New College, Oxford, and was the University of Oxford's Professor for Public Understanding of Science from 1995 until 2008.   Dawkins first came to prominence with his 1976 book The Selfish Gene, which popularised the gene-centred view of evolution and introduced the term meme. With his book The Extended Phenotype (1982), he introduced into evolutionary biology the influential concept that the phenotypic effects of a gene are not necessarily limited to an organism's body, but can stretch far into the environment. In 2006, he founded the Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science.   Dawkins is known as an outspoken atheist. In interviews, he has called himself an agnostic about many matters of religious faith, instead endorsing reason. He is well known for his criticism of creationism and intelligent design. In The Blind Watchmaker (1986), he argues against the watchmaker analogy, an argument for the existence of a supernatural creator based upon the complexity of living organisms. Instead, he describes evolutionary processes as analogous to a blind watchmaker, in that reproduction, mutation, and selection are unguided by any designer. In The God Delusion (2006), Dawkins contends that a supernatural creator almost certainly does not exist and that religious faith is a delusion.   Dawkins has been awarded many prestigious academic and writing awards, and he makes regular television, radio, and Internet appearances, predominantly discussing his books, his atheism, and his ideas and opinions as a public intellectual.
Clive Barker (born 5 October 1952) is an English writer, film director, and visual artist. Barker came to prominence in the mid-1980s with a series of short stories, the Books of Blood, which established him as a leading horror writer. He has since written many novels and other works, and his fiction has been adapted into films, notably the Hellraiser and Candyman series. He was also the executive producer of the film Gods and Monsters.   Barker's paintings and illustrations have been featured in galleries in the United States as well as within his own books. He has created original characters and series for comic books, and some of his more popular horror stories have been adapted to comics.
Colette Dowling (c. 1938) is an American writer best known for her 1981 book The Cinderella Complex: Women's Hidden Fear of Independence, which was a New York Times best-seller. She has a psychotherapy practice in New York.
Colleen Hoover (born December 11, 1979) is the #1 New York Times bestselling author of eleven novels and five novellas. Hoover's novels fall into the New Adult and young adult categories.   Hoover published her first novel, Slammed, in January 2012. Since then, all of her full-length novels have become New York Times Best Sellers.   Colleen Hoover has appeared on ABC News Nightline and CBS This Morning
Colleen Houck (born October 3, 1969) is an American writer known for writing The New York Times two best selling series, Tiger's Curse and Reawakened. As an author, she has been largely collected by libraries worldwide.
Colum McCann (born 28 February 1965) is an Irish writer of literary fiction. He was born in Dublin, Ireland and now lives in New York. He is a Distinguished Professor of Creative Writing in the Master of Fine Arts program at Hunter College, New York with fellow novelists Peter Carey and Tea Obreht, and has visited many universities and colleges all over the world.   His work has been published in 35 languages and has appeared in the New Yorker, Esquire, and the Paris Review, among other publications. He has written for The New York Times, Esquire, Paris Review, and The Atlantic Monthly, as well as many other international publications.   McCann has written six novels, including TransAtlantic and the National Book Award-winning Let the Great World Spin. He has also written three collections of short stories, including Thirteen Ways of Looking, released in October 2015.
Commander in Chief of the Continental Army    - Valley Forge Battle of Trenton - Valley Forge - Battle of Trenton   - Mount Vernon Conference - 1787 Constitutional Convention  President of the United States Presidency  First term   - 1788–89 election - 1st inauguration   - Judiciary Act - Whiskey Rebellion   - Thanksgiving - Presidential title - Coinage Act - Residence Act District of Columbia - District of Columbia  Second term   - 1792 election - 2nd inauguration - Neutrality Act - Jay Treaty   - Judicial appointments - Farewell Address  Legacy   - Legacy - Monuments - Depictions - Slavery - Papers - Library - Bibliography         - v - t - e   George Washington (February 22, 1732 – December 14, 1799) was a political leader, general, statesman, and Founding Father who served as the first president of the United States (1789–1797). He commanded Patriot forces in the new nation's American Revolutionary War and led them to victory over the British. Washington also presided at the Constitutional Convention of 1787, which established the new federal government. For his leadership during the American Revolution, he has been called the "Father of His Country".   Washington was born to a successful family of planters and slaveholders in colonial Virginia. He had educational opportunities and at age seventeen launched a successful career as a land surveyor. He then became a leader of the Virginia militia in the French and Indian War. During the Revolutionary War he was a delegate to the Continental Congress, was unanimously appointed commander-in-chief of the Army, and led an allied campaign to victory at the Siege of Yorktown which ended the conflict. Once victory was in hand in 1783, he resigned as commander-in-chief.   Washington was unanimously elected President by the Electoral College in the first two national elections. He promoted and oversaw implementation of a strong, well-financed national government, but remained impartial in the fierce rivalry between Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton. In the French Revolution, Washington proclaimed a policy of neutrality while sanctioning the controversial Jay Treaty. As President he set enduring precedents for the office, including the title "The President of the United States". Washington's Farewell Address was widely regarded as one of the most influential statements on republicanism.   Born into a world accustomed to slave labor, Washington owned numerous slaves, but became increasingly troubled with the institution and freed his slaves in his will. He was a member of the Anglican Church and the Freemasons, and urged tolerance for all religions in his roles as general and President. Upon his death, he was eulogized as "first in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen." Washington has been memorialized by monuments, art, places, stamps, and currency, and he has been ranked by scholars among the four greatest American presidents.
Confucius (/kənˈfjuːʃəs/ kən-FEW-shəs; 551–479 BC) was a Chinese teacher, editor, politician, and philosopher of the Spring and Autumn period of Chinese history.   The philosophy of Confucius, also known as Confucianism, emphasized personal and governmental morality, correctness of social relationships, justice and sincerity. His followers competed successfully with many other schools during the Hundred Schools of Thought era only to be suppressed in favor of the Legalists during the Qin dynasty. Following the victory of Han over Chu after the collapse of Qin, Confucius's thoughts received official sanction and were further developed into a system known in the West as Neo-Confucianism, and later New Confucianism (Modern Neo-Confucianism).   Confucius is traditionally credited with having authored or edited many of the Chinese classic texts including all of the Five Classics, but modern scholars are cautious of attributing specific assertions to Confucius himself. Aphorisms concerning his teachings were compiled in the Analects, but only many years after his death.   Confucius's principles have commonality with Chinese tradition and belief. He championed strong family loyalty, ancestor veneration, and respect of elders by their children and of husbands by their wives, recommending family as a basis for ideal government. He espoused the well-known principle "Do not do unto others what you do not want done to yourself", the Golden Rule. He is also a traditional deity in Daoism.   Confucius is widely considered as one of the most important and influential individuals in shaping human history. His teaching and philosophy greatly impacted people around the world and remains influential today.
Conn Iggulden /ˈɪɡəldɛn/ (born (1971-02-24)24 February 1971) is a British author who writes historical fiction, most notably the Emperor series and Conqueror series. He also co-authored The Dangerous Book for Boys along with his brother Hal Iggulden. In 2007, Iggulden became the first person to top the UK fiction and non-fiction charts at the same time.
Continuing his research in London, Darwin's wide reading now included the sixth edition of Malthus's An Essay on the Principle of Population, and on 28 September 1838 he noted its assertion that human "population, when unchecked, goes on doubling itself every twenty five years, or increases in a geometrical ratio", a geometric progression so that population soon exceeds food supply in what is known as a Malthusian catastrophe. Darwin was well prepared to compare this to de Candolle's "warring of the species" of plants and the struggle for existence among wildlife, explaining how numbers of a species kept roughly stable. As species always breed beyond available resources, favourable variations would make organisms better at surviving and passing the variations on to their offspring, while unfavourable variations would be lost. He wrote that the "final cause of all this wedging, must be to sort out proper structure, & adapt it to changes", so that "One may say there is a force like a hundred thousand wedges trying force into every kind of adapted structure into the gaps of in the economy of nature, or rather forming gaps by thrusting out weaker ones." This would result in the formation of new species. As he later wrote in his Autobiography:    In October 1838, that is, fifteen months after I had begun my systematic enquiry, I happened to read for amusement Malthus on Population, and being well prepared to appreciate the struggle for existence which everywhere goes on from long-continued observation of the habits of animals and plants, it at once struck me that under these circumstances favourable variations would tend to be preserved, and unfavourable ones to be destroyed. The result of this would be the formation of new species. Here, then, I had at last got a theory by which to work..."    By mid December, Darwin saw a similarity between farmers picking the best stock in selective breeding, and a Malthusian Nature selecting from chance variants so that "every part of newly acquired structure is fully practical and perfected", thinking this comparison "a beautiful part of my theory". He later called his theory natural selection, an analogy with what he termed the artificial selection of selective breeding.   On 11 November, he returned to Maer and proposed to Emma, once more telling her his ideas. She accepted, then in exchanges of loving letters she showed how she valued his openness in sharing their differences, also expressing her strong Unitarian beliefs and concerns that his honest doubts might separate them in the afterlife. While he was house-hunting in London, bouts of illness continued and Emma wrote urging him to get some rest, almost prophetically remarking "So don't be ill any more my dear Charley till I can be with you to nurse you." He found what they called "Macaw Cottage" (because of its gaudy interiors) in Gower Street, then moved his "museum" in over Christmas. On 24 January 1839, Darwin was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS).   On 29 January, Darwin and Emma Wedgwood were married at Maer in an Anglican ceremony arranged to suit the Unitarians, then immediately caught the train to London and their new home.  Geology books, barnacles, evolutionary research Further information: Development of Darwin's theory  Darwin in 1842 with his eldest son, William Erasmus Darwin   Darwin now had the framework of his theory of natural selection "by which to work", as his "prime hobby". His research included extensive experimental selective breeding of plants and animals, finding evidence that species were not fixed and investigating many detailed ideas to refine and substantiate his theory. For fifteen years this work was in the background to his main occupation of writing on geology and publishing expert reports on the Beagle collections.   When FitzRoy's Narrative was published in May 1839, Darwin's Journal and Remarks was such a success as the third volume that later that year it was published on its own. Early in 1842, Darwin wrote about his ideas to Charles Lyell, who noted that his ally "denies seeing a beginning to each crop of species".   Darwin's book The Structure and Distribution of Coral Reefs on his theory of atoll formation was published in May 1842 after more than three years of work, and he then wrote his first "pencil sketch" of his theory of natural selection. To escape the pressures of London, the family moved to rural Down House in September. On 11 January 1844, Darwin mentioned his theorising to the botanist Joseph Dalton Hooker, writing with melodramatic humour "it is like confessing a murder". Hooker replied "There may in my opinion have been a series of productions on different spots, & also a gradual change of species. I shall be delighted to hear how you think that this change may have taken place, as no presently conceived opinions satisfy me on the subject."   Darwin's "sandwalk" at Down House was his usual "Thinking Path".   By July, Darwin had expanded his "sketch" into a 230-page "Essay", to be expanded with his research results if he died prematurely. In November, the anonymously published sensational best-seller Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation brought wide interest in transmutation. Darwin scorned its amateurish geology and zoology, but carefully reviewed his own arguments. Controversy erupted, and it continued to sell well despite contemptuous dismissal by scientists.   Darwin completed his third geological book in 1846. He now renewed a fascination and expertise in marine invertebrates, dating back to his student days with Grant, by dissecting and classifying the barnacles he had collected on the voyage, enjoying observing beautiful structures and thinking about comparisons with allied structures. In 1847, Hooker read the "Essay" and sent notes that provided Darwin with the calm critical feedback that he needed, but would not commit himself and questioned Darwin's opposition to continuing acts of creation.   In an attempt to improve his chronic ill health, Darwin went in 1849 to Dr. James Gully's Malvern spa and was surprised to find some benefit from hydrotherapy. Then, in 1851, his treasured daughter Annie fell ill, reawakening his fears that his illness might be hereditary, and after a long series of crises she died.   In eight years of work on barnacles (Cirripedia), Darwin's theory helped him to find "homologies" showing that slightly changed body parts served different functions to meet new conditions, and in some genera he found minute males parasitic on hermaphrodites, showing an intermediate stage in evolution of distinct sexes. In 1853, it earned him the Royal Society's Royal Medal, and it made his reputation as a biologist. In 1854 he became a Fellow of the Linnean Society of London, gaining postal access to its library. He began a major reassessment of his theory of species, and in November realised that divergence in the character of descendants could be explained by them becoming adapted to "diversified places in the economy of nature".  Publication of the theory of natural selection Further information: Publication of Darwin's theory  Charles Darwin, aged 46 in 1855, by then working towards publication of his theory of natural selection. He wrote to Hooker about this portrait, "if I really have as bad an expression, as my photograph gives me, how I can have one single friend is surprising."   By the start of 1856, Darwin was investigating whether eggs and seeds could survive travel across seawater to spread species across oceans. Hooker increasingly doubted the traditional view that species were fixed, but their young friend Thomas Henry Huxley was firmly against the transmutation of species. Lyell was intrigued by Darwin's speculations without realising their extent. When he read a paper by Alfred Russel Wallace, "On the Law which has Regulated the Introduction of New Species", he saw similarities with Darwin's thoughts and urged him to publish to establish precedence. Though Darwin saw no threat, on 14 May 1856 he began writing a short paper. Finding answers to difficult questions held him up repeatedly, and he expanded his plans to a "big book on species" titled Natural Selection, which was to include his "note on Man". He continued his researches, obtaining information and specimens from naturalists worldwide including Wallace who was working in Borneo. In mid-1857 he added a section heading; "Theory applied to Races of Man", but did not add text on this topic. On 5 September 1857, Darwin sent the American botanist Asa Gray a detailed outline of his ideas, including an abstract of Natural Selection, which omitted human origins and sexual selection. In December, Darwin received a letter from Wallace asking if the book would examine human origins. He responded that he would avoid that subject, "so surrounded with prejudices", while encouraging Wallace's theorising and adding that "I go much further than you."   Darwin's book was only partly written when, on 18 June 1858, he received a paper from Wallace describing natural selection. Shocked that he had been "forestalled", Darwin sent it on that day to Lyell, as requested by Wallace, and although Wallace had not asked for publication, Darwin suggested he would send it to any journal that Wallace chose. His family was in crisis with children in the village dying of scarlet fever, and he put matters in the hands of his friends. After some discussion, Lyell and Hooker decided on a joint presentation at the Linnean Society on 1 July of On the Tendency of Species to form Varieties; and on the Perpetuation of Varieties and Species by Natural Means of Selection. On the evening of 28 June, Darwin's baby son died of scarlet fever after almost a week of severe illness, and he was too distraught to attend.   There was little immediate attention to this announcement of the theory; the president of the Linnean Society remarked in May 1859 that the year had not been marked by any revolutionary discoveries. Only one review rankled enough for Darwin to recall it later; Professor Samuel Haughton of Dublin claimed that "all that was new in them was false, and what was true was old". Darwin struggled for thirteen months to produce an abstract of his "big book", suffering from ill health but getting constant encouragement from his scientific friends. Lyell arranged to have it published by John Murray.   On the Origin of Species proved unexpectedly popular, with the entire stock of 1,250 copies oversubscribed when it went on sale to booksellers on 22 November 1859. In the book, Darwin set out "one long argument" of detailed observations, inferences and consideration of anticipated objections. In making the case for common descent, he included evidence of homologies between humans and other mammals.[III] Having outlined sexual selection, he hinted that it could explain differences between human races.[IV] He avoided explicit discussion of human origins, but implied the significance of his work with the sentence; "Light will be thrown on the origin of man and his history."[IV] His theory is simply stated in the introduction:    As many more individuals of each species are born than can possibly survive; and as, consequently, there is a frequently recurring struggle for existence, it follows that any being, if it vary however slightly in any manner profitable to itself, under the complex and sometimes varying conditions of life, will have a better chance of surviving, and thus be naturally selected. From the strong principle of inheritance, any selected variety will tend to propagate its new and modified form.    At the end of the book he concluded that:    There is grandeur in this view of life, with its several powers, having been originally breathed into a few forms or into one; and that, whilst this planet has gone cycling on according to the fixed law of gravity, from so simple a beginning endless forms most beautiful and most wonderful have been, and are being, evolved.    The last word was the only variant of "evolved" in the first five editions of the book. "Evolutionism" at that time was associated with other concepts, most commonly with embryological development, and Darwin first used the word evolution in The Descent of Man in 1871, before adding it in 1872 to the 6th edition of The Origin of Species.  Responses to publication  During the Darwin family's 1868 holiday in her Isle of Wight cottage, Julia Margaret Cameron took portraits showing the bushy beard Darwin grew between 1862 and 1866.  An 1871 caricature following publication of The Descent of Man was typical of many showing Darwin with an ape body, identifying him in popular culture as the leading author of evolutionary theory. Further information: Reaction to On the Origin of Species   The book aroused international interest, with less controversy than had greeted the popular Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation. Though Darwin's illness kept him away from the public debates, he eagerly scrutinised the scientific response, commenting on press cuttings, reviews, articles, satires and caricatures, and corresponded on it with colleagues worldwide. The book did not explicitly discuss human origins,[IV] but included a number of hints about the animal ancestry of humans from which the inference could be made. The first review asked, "If a monkey has become a man–what may not a man become?" and said it should be left to theologians as it was too dangerous for ordinary readers. Amongst early favourable responses, Huxley's reviews swiped at Richard Owen, leader of the scientific establishment Huxley was trying to overthrow. In April, Owen's review attacked Darwin's friends and condescendingly dismissed his ideas, angering Darwin, but Owen and others began to promote ideas of supernaturally guided evolution. Patrick Matthew drew attention to his 1831 book which had a brief appendix suggesting a concept of natural selection leading to new species, but he had not developed the idea.   The Church of England's response was mixed. Darwin's old Cambridge tutors Sedgwick and Henslow dismissed the ideas, but liberal clergymen interpreted natural selection as an instrument of God's design, with the cleric Charles Kingsley seeing it as "just as noble a conception of Deity". In 1860, the publication of Essays and Reviews by seven liberal Anglican theologians diverted clerical attention from Darwin, with its ideas including higher criticism attacked by church authorities as heresy. In it, Baden Powell argued that miracles broke God's laws, so belief in them was atheistic, and praised "Mr Darwin's masterly volume  the grand principle of the self-evolving powers of nature". Asa Gray discussed teleology with Darwin, who imported and distributed Gray's pamphlet on theistic evolution, Natural Selection is not inconsistent with natural theology. The most famous confrontation was at the public 1860 Oxford evolution debate during a meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, where the Bishop of Oxford Samuel Wilberforce, though not opposed to transmutation of species, argued against Darwin's explanation and human descent from apes. Joseph Hooker argued strongly for Darwin, and Thomas Huxley's legendary retort, that he would rather be descended from an ape than a man who misused his gifts, came to symbolise a triumph of science over religion.   Even Darwin's close friends Gray, Hooker, Huxley and Lyell still expressed various reservations but gave strong support, as did many others, particularly younger naturalists. Gray and Lyell sought reconciliation with faith, while Huxley portrayed a polarisation between religion and science. He campaigned pugnaciously against the authority of the clergy in education, aiming to overturn the dominance of clergymen and aristocratic amateurs under Owen in favour of a new generation of professional scientists. Owen's claim that brain anatomy proved humans to be a separate biological order from apes was shown to be false by Huxley in a long running dispute parodied by Kingsley as the "Great Hippocampus Question", and discredited Owen.   Darwinism became a movement covering a wide range of evolutionary ideas. In 1863 Lyell's Geological Evidences of the Antiquity of Man popularised prehistory, though his caution on evolution disappointed Darwin. Weeks later Huxley's Evidence as to Man's Place in Nature showed that anatomically, humans are apes, then The Naturalist on the River Amazons by Henry Walter Bates provided empirical evidence of natural selection. Lobbying brought Darwin Britain's highest scientific honour, the Royal Society's Copley Medal, awarded on 3 November 1864. That day, Huxley held the first meeting of what became the influential "X Club" devoted to "science, pure and free, untrammelled by religious dogmas". By the end of the decade most scientists agreed that evolution occurred, but only a minority supported Darwin's view that the chief mechanism was natural selection.   The Origin of Species was translated into many languages, becoming a staple scientific text attracting thoughtful attention from all walks of life, including the "working men" who flocked to Huxley's lectures. Darwin's theory also resonated with various movements at the time[V] and became a key fixture of popular culture.[VI] Cartoonists parodied animal ancestry in an old tradition of showing humans with animal traits, and in Britain these droll images served to popularise Darwin's theory in an unthreatening way. While ill in 1862 Darwin began growing a beard, and when he reappeared in public in 1866 caricatures of him as an ape helped to identify all forms of evolutionism with Darwinism.  Descent of Man, sexual selection, and botany  By 1878, an increasingly famous Darwin had suffered years of illness.  Letter from Charles Darwin to John Burdon-Sanderson See also: Orchids to Variation, Descent of Man to Emotions, and Insectivorous Plants to Worms   Despite repeated bouts of illness during the last twenty-two years of his life, Darwin's work continued. Having published On the Origin of Species as an abstract of his theory, he pressed on with experiments, research, and writing of his "big book". He covered human descent from earlier animals including evolution of society and of mental abilities, as well as explaining decorative beauty in wildlife and diversifying into innovative plant studies.   Enquiries about insect pollination led in 1861 to novel studies of wild orchids, showing adaptation of their flowers to attract specific moths to each species and ensure cross fertilisation. In 1862 Fertilisation of Orchids gave his first detailed demonstration of the power of natural selection to explain complex ecological relationships, making testable predictions. As his health declined, he lay on his sickbed in a room filled with inventive experiments to trace the movements of climbing plants. Admiring visitors included Ernst Haeckel, a zealous proponent of Darwinismus incorporating Lamarckism and Goethe's idealism. Wallace remained supportive, though he increasingly turned to Spiritualism.   Darwin's book The Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication (1868) was the first part of his planned "big book", and included his unsuccessful hypothesis of pangenesis attempting to explain heredity. It sold briskly at first, despite its size, and was translated into many languages. He wrote most of a second part, on natural selection, but it remained unpublished in his lifetime.   Punch's almanac for 1882, published shortly before Darwin's death, depicts him amidst evolution from chaos to Victorian gentleman with the title Man Is But A Worm.   Lyell had already popularised human prehistory, and Huxley had shown that anatomically humans are apes. With The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex published in 1871, Darwin set out evidence from numerous sources that humans are animals, showing continuity of physical and mental attributes, and presented sexual selection to explain impractical animal features such as the peacock's plumage as well as human evolution of culture, differences between sexes, and physical and cultural racial classification, while emphasising that humans are all one species. His research using images was expanded in his 1872 book The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals, one of the first books to feature printed photographs, which discussed the evolution of human psychology and its continuity with the behaviour of animals. Both books proved very popular, and Darwin was impressed by the general assent with which his views had been received, remarking that "everybody is talking about it without being shocked." His conclusion was "that man with all his noble qualities, with sympathy which feels for the most debased, with benevolence which extends not only to other men but to the humblest living creature, with his god-like intellect which has penetrated into the movements and constitution of the solar system–with all these exalted powers–Man still bears in his bodily frame the indelible stamp of his lowly origin."   His evolution-related experiments and investigations led to books on Orchids, Insectivorous Plants, The Effects of Cross and Self Fertilisation in the Vegetable Kingdom, different forms of flowers on plants of the same species, and The Power of Movement in Plants. His botanical work was interpreted and popularised by various writers including Grant Allen and H. G. Wells, and helped transform plant science in the late 19th century and early 20th century. In his last book he returned to The Formation of Vegetable Mould through the Action of Worms.  Death and funeral See also: Darwin from Insectivorous Plants to Worms  Tombs of John Herschel and Charles Darwin. Westminster Abbey.   In 1882 he was diagnosed with what was called "angina pectoris" which then meant coronary thrombosis and disease of the heart. At the time of his death, the physicians diagnosed "anginal attacks", and "heart-failure". Today it is speculated that Darwin was suffering from chronic Chagas disease. This speculation is based on a journal entry written by Darwin, describing he was bitten by the "Kissing Bug" in Mendoza, Argentina in 1835; and based on the constellation of clinical symptoms he exhibited, including cardiac disease which is a hallmark of chronic Chagas disease. Exhuming Darwin's body is likely necessary to definitively determine his state of infection by detecting DNA of infecting parasite, T. cruzi, that causes Chagas disease.   He died at Down House on 19 April 1882. His last words were to his family, telling Emma "I am not the least afraid of death – Remember what a good wife you have been to me – Tell all my children to remember how good they have been to me", then while she rested, he repeatedly told Henrietta and Francis "It's almost worth while to be sick to be nursed by you". He had expected to be buried in St Mary's churchyard at Downe, but at the request of Darwin's colleagues, after public and parliamentary petitioning, William Spottiswoode (President of the Royal Society) arranged for Darwin to be honoured by burial in Westminster Abbey, close to John Herschel and Isaac Newton. The funeral was held on Wednesday 26 April and was attended by thousands of people, including family, friends, scientists, philosophers and dignitaries.  Legacy  In 1881 Darwin was an eminent figure, still working on his contributions to evolutionary thought that had an enormous effect on many fields of science. Portrait by John Collier.   By the time of his death, Darwin had convinced most scientists that evolution as descent with modification was correct, and he was regarded as a great scientist who had revolutionised ideas. In June 1909, though few at that time agreed with his view that "natural selection has been the main but not the exclusive means of modification", he was honoured by more than 400 officials and scientists from across the world who met in Cambridge to commemorate his centenary and the fiftieth anniversary of On the Origin of Species. Around the beginning of the 20th century, a period that has been called "the eclipse of Darwinism", scientists proposed various alternative evolutionary mechanisms, which eventually proved untenable. Ronald Fisher, an English statistician, finally united Mendelian genetics with natural selection, in the period between 1918 and his 1930 book The Genetical Theory of Natural Selection. He gave the theory a mathematical footing and brought broad scientific consensus that natural selection was the basic mechanism of evolution, thus founding the basis for population genetics and the modern evolutionary synthesis, with J.B.S. Haldane and Sewall Wright, which set the frame of reference for modern debates and refinements of the theory.  Commemoration Main article: Commemoration of Charles Darwin See also: List of things named after Charles Darwin and List of taxa described by Charles Darwin  Statute of Darwin in Natural History Museum, London   During Darwin's lifetime, many geographical features were given his name. An expanse of water adjoining the Beagle Channel was named Darwin Sound by Robert FitzRoy after Darwin's prompt action, along with two or three of the men, saved them from being marooned on a nearby shore when a collapsing glacier caused a large wave that would have swept away their boats, and the nearby Mount Darwin in the Andes was named in celebration of Darwin's 25th birthday. When the Beagle was surveying Australia in 1839, Darwin's friend John Lort Stokes sighted a natural harbour which the ship's captain Wickham named Port Darwin: a nearby settlement was renamed Darwin in 1911, and it became the capital city of Australia's Northern Territory.   Unveiling of the Darwin Statue outside the former Shrewsbury School building in 1897   More than 120 species and nine genera have been named after Darwin. In one example, the group of tanagers related to those Darwin found in the Galápagos Islands became popularly known as "Darwin's finches" in 1947, fostering inaccurate legends about their significance to his work.   Darwin's work has continued to be celebrated by numerous publications and events. The Linnean Society of London has commemorated Darwin's achievements by the award of the Darwin–Wallace Medal since 1908. Darwin Day has become an annual celebration, and in 2009 worldwide events were arranged for the bicentenary of Darwin's birth and the 150th anniversary of the publication of On the Origin of Species.   Darwin has been commemorated in the UK, with his portrait printed on the reverse of £10 banknotes printed along with a hummingbird and HMS Beagle, issued by the Bank of England.   A life-size seated statue of Darwin can be seen in the main hall of the Natural History Museum in London.   A seated statue of Darwin, unveiled 1897, stands in front of Shrewsbury Library, the building that used to house Shrewsbury School, which Darwin attended as a boy. Another statue of Darwin as a young man is situated in the grounds of Christ's College, Cambridge.   Darwin College, a postgraduate college at Cambridge University, is named after the Darwin family.  Children See also: Darwin–Wedgwood family
Cormac McCarthy (born Charles McCarthy; July 20, 1933) is an American novelist, playwright, and screenwriter. He has written ten novels, spanning the Southern Gothic, Western, and post-apocalyptic genres.   McCarthy's fifth novel, Blood Meridian (1985), was on Time magazine's 2005 list of the 100 best English-language books published since 1923.   For All the Pretty Horses (1992), he won both the National Book Award and National Book Critics Circle Award. His 2005 novel No Country for Old Men was adapted as a 2007 film of the same name, which won four Academy Awards, including Best Picture. All the Pretty Horses, The Road, and Child of God have also been adapted as motion pictures, while Outer Dark was turned into a 15-minute short.   McCarthy won the 2007 Pulitzer Prize and the James Tait Black Memorial Prize for Fiction for The Road (2006). In 2010, The Times ranked The Road first on its list of the 100 best fiction and non-fiction books of the past 10 years. Literary critic Harold Bloom named McCarthy as one of the four major American novelists of his time, alongside Don DeLillo, Thomas Pynchon and Philip Roth, and called Blood Meridian "the greatest single book since Faulkner's As I Lay Dying".
Cornell George Hopley-Woolrich (December 4, 1903 – September 25, 1968) was an American novelist and short story writer who wrote using the name Cornell Woolrich, and sometimes the pseudonyms William Irish and George Hopley.   His biographer, Francis Nevins Jr., rated Woolrich the fourth best crime writer of his day, behind Dashiell Hammett, Erle Stanley Gardner and Raymond Chandler. A check of film titles reveals that more film noir screenplays were adapted from works by Woolrich than any other crime novelist, and many of his stories were adapted during the 1940s for Suspense and other dramatic radio programs.
Count Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy (/ˈtoʊlstɔɪ, ˈtɒl-/; Russian: Лев Николаевич Толстой, tr. Lev Nikoláyevich Tolstóy; [lʲef nʲɪkɐˈlaɪvʲɪtɕ tɐlˈstoj] (; 9 September [O.S. 28 August] 1828 – 20 November [O.S. 7 November] 1910), usually referred to in English as Leo Tolstoy, was a Russian writer who is regarded as one of the greatest authors of all time.   Born to an aristocratic Russian family in 1828, he is best known for the novels War and Peace (1869) and Anna Karenina (1877), often cited as pinnacles of realist fiction. He first achieved literary acclaim in his twenties with his semi-autobiographical trilogy, Childhood, Boyhood, and Youth (1852–1856), and Sevastopol Sketches (1855), based upon his experiences in the Crimean War. Tolstoy's fiction includes dozens of short stories and several novellas such as The Death of Ivan Ilyich (1886), Family Happiness (1859), and Hadji Murad (1912). He also wrote plays and numerous philosophical essays.   In the 1870s Tolstoy experienced a profound moral crisis, followed by what he regarded as an equally profound spiritual awakening, as outlined in his non-fiction work A Confession (1882). His literal interpretation of the ethical teachings of Jesus, centering on the Sermon on the Mount, caused him to become a fervent Christian anarchist and pacifist. Tolstoy's ideas on nonviolent resistance, expressed in such works as The Kingdom of God Is Within You (1894), were to have a profound impact on such pivotal 20th-century figures as Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, and Martin Luther King, Jr. Tolstoy also became a dedicated advocate of Georgism, the economic philosophy of Henry George, which he incorporated into his writing, particularly Resurrection (1899).
Craig Ferguson (born 17 May 1962) is a Scottish-American television host, comedian, author and actor. He was the host of both the syndicated game show Celebrity Name Game (2014–2017), for which he has won two Daytime Emmy Awards, and of Join or Die with Craig Ferguson (2016) on History. He was also the host of the CBS late-night talk show The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson (2005–2014). In 2017 he released a web show with his wife Megan, titled Couple Thinkers. It ran for six episodes from October 9, 2017. It is available on YouTube.   After starting his career in Britain with music, comedy and theatre, Ferguson moved to the United States where he appeared in the role of Nigel Wick on the ABC sitcom The Drew Carey Show (1996–2004). He has written and starred in three films, directing one of them, and has appeared in several others, including several voice-over roles for animations. Ferguson has also written two books: Between the Bridge and the River, a novel; and American on Purpose, a memoir. He holds both British and American citizenship.
Craig Groeschel (born December 2, 1967) is the founder and senior pastor of Life.Church, a church with locations in ten states. He is married to Amy and has six children and one grandchild. They live in Edmond, Oklahoma, a suburb of Oklahoma City, where Life.Church is based.
Dada Bhagwan, also known as Dadashri, born Ambalal Muljibhai Patel, was a spiritual leader from Gujarat, India who founded the Akram Vignan Movement.
Dame Daphne du Maurier, Lady Browning, DBE (/duː ˈmɒrieɪ/; 13 May 1907 – 19 April 1989) was an English author and playwright.   Although she is classed as a romantic novelist, her stories have been described as "moody and resonant" with overtones of the paranormal. Her bestselling works were not at first taken seriously by critics, but have since earned an enduring reputation for narrative craft. Many have been successfully adapted into films, including the novels Rebecca, My Cousin Rachel, and Jamaica Inn, and the short stories "The Birds" and "Don't Look Now/Not After Midnight".   Du Maurier spent much of her life in Cornwall, where most of her works are set. As her fame increased, she became more reclusive.   Her parents were the actor/manager Sir Gerald du Maurier and stage actress Muriel Beaumont, and her grandfather was the cartoonist and writer George du Maurier.
Dame Jean Iris Murdoch DBE (/ˈmɜːrdɒk/; 15 July 1919 – 8 February 1999) was an Irish-born British novelist and philosopher. Murdoch is best known for her novels about good and evil, sexual relationships, morality, and the power of the unconscious. Her first published novel, Under the Net, was selected in 1998 as one of Modern Library's 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century. In 1987, she was made a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire. Her books include The Bell (1958), A Severed Head (1961), The Red and the Green (1965), The Nice and the Good (1968), The Black Prince (1973), Henry and Cato (1976), The Sea, the Sea (1978, Booker Prize), The Philosopher's Pupil (1983), The Good Apprentice (1985), The Book and the Brotherhood (1987), The Message to the Planet (1989), and The Green Knight (1993). In 2008, The Times ranked Murdoch twelfth on a list of "The 50 greatest British writers since 1945".
Daniel Gerhard Brown (born June 22, 1964) is an American author most well known for his thriller novels, including the Robert Langdon stories, Angels & Demons (2000), The Da Vinci Code (2003), The Lost Symbol (2009), Inferno (2013) and Origin (2017). His novels are treasure hunts set in a 24-hour period, and feature the recurring themes of cryptography, keys, symbols, codes, art, and conspiracy theories. His books have been translated into 56 languages, and as of 2012, sold over 200 million copies. Three of them, Angels & Demons (2000), The Da Vinci Code (2003) and Inferno (2013) have been adapted into films.   Brown's novels that feature the lead character, Langdon, also include historical themes and Christianity as motifs, and have generated controversy. Brown states on his website that his books are not anti-Christian, though he is on a 'constant spiritual journey' himself, and says that his book The Da Vinci Code is simply "an entertaining story that promotes spiritual discussion and debate" and suggests that the book may be used "as a positive catalyst for introspection and exploration of our faith".
Daniel Goleman (born March 7, 1946) is an author and science journalist. For twelve years, he wrote for The New York Times, reporting on the brain and behavioral sciences. His 1995 book Emotional Intelligence was on The New York Times Best Seller list for a year-and-a-half, a best-seller in many countries, and is in print worldwide in 40 languages. Apart from his books on emotional intelligence, Goleman has written books on topics including self-deception, creativity, transparency, meditation, social and emotional learning, ecoliteracy and the ecological crisis, and the Dalai Lama’s vision for the future.
Daniel Keyes (August 9, 1927 – June 15, 2014) was an American writer who wrote the novel Flowers for Algernon. Keyes was given the Author Emeritus honor by the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America in 2000.
Dan Simmons (born April 4, 1948) is an American science fiction and horror writer. He is the author of the Hyperion Cantos and the Ilium/Olympos cycles, among other works which span the science fiction, horror, and fantasy genres, sometimes within a single novel. A typical example of Simmons' intermingling of genres is Song of Kali (1985), winner of the World Fantasy Award. He also writes mysteries and thrillers, some of which feature the continuing character Joe Kurtz.
Darren Main (born January 20, 1971) is a yoga teacher and author currently living in San Francisco. He has written largely about Eastern spirituality for a more modern and Western audience. Main is best known for his second book, Yoga and the Path of the Urban Mystic. He has written several other books: Inner Tranquility: A Guide to Seated Meditation", "Spiritual Journeys Along the Yellow Brick Road"; a controversial book, "Hearts and Minds: Talking to Christians About Homosexuality" and "The Yogi Entrepreneur: a Guide to Earning a Mindful Living Through Yoga Main's writing has been translated in various languages and several of his books have been released in numerous editions.   Main also maintains a podcast called "Inquire Within" in which he interviews various individuals on topics such as healing, spiritualism, and social activism.
Darren O'Shaughnessy (/oʊˈʃɔːnəsi/; born 2 July 1972 in London. England), who commonly writes under the pen name Darren Shan, is an irish author. Darren Shan is the main character in O'Shaughnessy's The Saga of Darren Shan young adult fiction series, also known as the Cirque Du Freak series. He followed that up with The Demonata series and the stand-alone books, Koyasan and The Thin Executioner. Then came The Saga of Larten Crepsley which is a prequel to The Saga of Darren Shan. He has most recently finished a 12 novel series "Zom-B". The first book went on sale in September 2012, with the final book, Zom-B Goddess, published in April 2016. Darren also writes for adults, and has published The City Book Trilogy and Lady Of The Shades under the name of Darren Shan, and The Evil And The Pure, Sunburn, An Other Place and Midsummer's Bottom under the name of Darren Dash.
Darynda Jones is the American author of the Charley Davidson series of paranormal romantic thrillers and a young adult series called The Darklight Trilogy. She lives in New Mexico.
Dave Eggers (born March 12, 1970) is an American writer, editor, and publisher. He is the husband of writer Vendela Vida with whom he has two children. He wrote the best-selling memoir A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius. Eggers is also the founder of McSweeney's, a literary journal, a co-founder of the literacy project 826 Valencia and the human rights nonprofit Voice of Witness, and the founder of ScholarMatch, a program that matches donors with students needing funds for college tuition. His writing has appeared in several magazines.
David Eagleman (born April 25, 1971) is an American neuroscientist, author, and science communicator. He teaches at Stanford University and is CEO of NeoSensory, a company that develops devices for sensory substitution. He also directs the non-profit Center for Science and Law, which seeks to align the legal system with modern neuroscience. He is known for his work on brain plasticity, time perception, synesthesia, and neurolaw. He is a Guggenheim Fellow and a New York Times bestselling author published in 32 languages. He is the writer and presenter of the Emmy-nominated international television series, The Brain with David Eagleman.
David Eddings (July 7, 1931 – June 2, 2009) was an American fantasy writer. With his wife Leigh, he authored several best-selling epic fantasy novel series, including The Belgariad (1982–84), The Malloreon (1987–91), The Elenium (1989–91), The Tamuli (1992–94), and The Dreamers (2003–06).
David Foster Wallace (February 21, 1962 – September 12, 2008) was an American writer and university instructor in the disciplines of English and creative writing. His novel Infinite Jest (1996) was listed by Time magazine as one of the 100 best English-language novels published between 1923 and 2005. His last novel, The Pale King (2011), was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 2012.   The Los Angeles Times' David Ulin called Wallace "one of the most influential and innovative writers of the last twenty years". Among the writers who cite Wallace as an influence are Dave Eggers, Zadie Smith, Jonathan Franzen, Elizabeth Wurtzel, George Saunders, Rivka Galchen, Matthew Gallaway, David Gordon, Darin Strauss, Charles Yu, and Deb Olin Unferth.
David Hume (/hjuːm/; born David Home; 7 May 1711 NS (26 April 1711 OS) – 25 August 1776) was a Scottish Enlightenment philosopher, historian, economist, and essayist, who is best known today for his highly influential system of philosophical empiricism, skepticism, and naturalism. Hume's empiricist approach to philosophy places him with John Locke, George Berkeley, Francis Bacon and Thomas Hobbes as a British Empiricist. Beginning with his A Treatise of Human Nature (1739), Hume strove to create a total naturalistic science of man that examined the psychological basis of human nature. Against philosophical rationalists, Hume held that passion rather than reason governs human behaviour. Hume argued against the existence of innate ideas, positing that all human knowledge is founded solely in experience.   In what is sometimes referred to as Hume's problem of induction, he argued that inductive reasoning and belief in causality cannot be justified rationally; instead, our trust in causality and induction result from custom and mental habit, and are attributable only to the experience of "constant conjunction" of events. This is because we can never actually perceive that one event causes another, but only that the two are always conjoined. Accordingly, to draw any causal inferences from past experience it is necessary to presuppose that the future will resemble the past, a presupposition which cannot itself be grounded in prior experience.   Hume's opposition to the teleological argument for God's existence, the argument from design, is generally regarded as the most intellectually significant attempt to rebut the argument prior to Darwinism.   Hume was also a sentimentalist who held that ethics are based on emotion or sentiment rather than abstract moral principle, famously proclaiming that "Reason is, and ought only to be the slave of the passions". Hume's moral theory has been seen as a unique attempt to synthesise the modern sentimentalist moral tradition to which Hume belonged, with the virtue ethics tradition of ancient philosophy, with which Hume concurred in regarding traits of character, rather than acts or their consequences, as ultimately the proper objects of moral evaluation. Hume maintained an early commitment to naturalistic explanations of moral phenomena, and is usually taken to have first clearly expounded the is–ought problem, or the idea that a statement of fact alone can never give rise to a normative conclusion of what ought to be done. Hume also denied that humans have an actual conception of the self, positing that we experience only a bundle of sensations, and that the self is nothing more than this bundle of causally-connected perceptions. Hume's compatibilist theory of free will takes causal determinism as fully compatible with human freedom.   Hume influenced utilitarianism, logical positivism, Immanuel Kant, the philosophy of science, early analytic philosophy, cognitive science, theology, and other movements and thinkers. Kant himself credited Hume as the spur to his philosophical thought who had awakened him from his "dogmatic slumbers".
David Levithan (born September 7, 1972) is an American young adult fiction author and editor. His first book, Boy Meets Boy, was published by Knopf Books for Young Readers in 2003. He has written numerous works featuring strong male gay characters, most notably Boy Meets Boy and Naomi and Ely's No Kiss List.
David Wroblewski (born 1959) is an American novelist whose first novel was The Story of Edgar Sawtelle.
Deb Caletti (born June 16, 1963) is an American writer of young adult and adult fiction. Caletti is a National Book Award finalist, as well as the recipient of other numerous awards including the PEN USA finalist award, the Washington State Book Award, and SLJ Best Book award. Caletti's books feature the Pacific Northwest, and her young adult work is popular for tackling difficult issues typically reserved for adult fiction. Her first adult fiction novel, He's Gone, was published by Random House in 2013 and was followed by her second book for adults, The Secrets She Keeps in 2015.
Deborah Day is a Canadian film director and writer.   She directed and co-wrote the film Expecting (2002), starring Colin Mochrie and Debra McGrath which won Most Popular Canadian Film at the 2002 Vancouver International Film Festival and the 2004 Canadian Comedy Award for Best Director.   With Mochrie and McGrath she also directed and co-wrote the CBC TV movie Getting Along Famously (2005), and later also directed the TV show of the same name.  External links   - Deborah Day on IMDb       This biographical article related to film in Canada is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
Deepak Chopra (/ˈdiːpɑːk ˈtʃoʊprə/; Hindi: [d̪iːpək tʃoːpraː]; born October 22, 1946) is an Indian-born American author, public speaker, alternative medicine advocate, and a prominent figure in the New Age movement. Through his books and videos, he has become one of the best-known and wealthiest figures in alternative medicine.   Chopra studied medicine in India before emigrating to the United States in 1970 where he completed residencies in internal medicine and endocrinology. As a licensed physician, he became chief of staff at the New England Memorial Hospital (NEMH) in 1980. He met Maharishi Mahesh Yogi in 1985 and became involved with the Transcendental Meditation movement (TM). He resigned his position at NEMH shortly thereafter to establish the Maharishi Ayurveda Health Center. Chopra gained a following in 1993 after he was interviewed on The Oprah Winfrey Show about his books. He then left the TM movement to become the executive director of Sharp HealthCare's Center for Mind-Body Medicine and in 1996 he co-founded the Chopra Center for Wellbeing.   Chopra believes that a person may attain "perfect health", a condition "that is free from disease, that never feels pain", and "that cannot age or die". Seeing the human body as being undergirded by a "quantum mechanical body" composed not of matter but of energy and information, he believes that "human aging is fluid and changeable; it can speed up, slow down, stop for a time, and even reverse itself," as determined by one's state of mind. He claims that his practices can also treat chronic disease. As of 2014, Deepak Chopra lived in a "health-centric" condominium in Manhattan.   The ideas Chopra promotes have been regularly criticized by medical and scientific professionals as pseudoscience. This criticism has been described as ranging "from dismissive  damning". For example, Robert Carroll states Chopra attempts to integrate Ayurveda with quantum mechanics to justify his teachings. Chopra argues that what he calls "quantum healing" cures any manner of ailments, including cancer, through effects that he claims are literally based on the same principles as quantum mechanics. This has led physicists to object to his use of the term quantum in reference to medical conditions and the human body. His treatments generally elicit nothing but a placebo response, and have drawn criticism that the unwarranted claims made for them may raise "false hope" and lure sick people away from legitimate medical treatments. He is placed by David Gorski among the "quacks", "cranks" and "purveyors of woo", and described as "arrogantly obstinate". Richard Dawkins has said that Chopra uses "quantum jargon as plausible-sounding hocus pocus".
Dejan StojanovićBorn (1959-03-11) 11 March 1959 (age 59) PećOccupationPoetLanguageSerbian, EnglishNationalitySerbianPeriod1978–presentGenrepoetry Literature portal   Dejan Stojanović (Serbian: Дејан Стојановић, pronounced [dejan stojanoʋitɕ]; born 11 March 1959) is a Serbian poet, writer, essayist, philosopher, businessman, and former journalist. His poetry is characterized by a recognizable system of thought and poetic devices, bordering on philosophy, and, overall, it has a highly reflective tone. According to the critic Petar V. Arbutina, "Stojanović belongs to the small and autochthonous circle of poets who have been the main creative and artistic force of the Serbian poetry in the last several decades."   Dejan Stojanović, Belgrade, 1981
Denis Diderot (French: [dəni did(ə)ʁo]; 5 October 1713 – 31 July 1784) was a French philosopher, art critic, and writer, best known for serving as co-founder, chief editor, and contributor to the Encyclopédie along with Jean le Rond d'Alembert. He was a prominent figure during the Enlightenment.   Diderot began his education by obtaining a Master of Arts degree in philosophy at a Jesuit college in 1732. He considered working in the church clergy before briefly studying law. When he decided to become a writer in 1734, his father disowned him for not entering one of the learned professions. He lived a bohemian existence for the next decade. He befriended philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau in 1742.   Though his work was broad as well as rigorous, it did not bring Diderot riches. He secured none of the posts that were occasionally given to needy men of letters; he could not even obtain the bare official recognition of merit that was implied by being chosen a member of the Académie française. He saw no alternative to selling his library to provide a dowry for his daughter. Empress Catherine II of Russia heard of his financial troubles and commissioned an agent in Paris to buy the library. She then requested that the philosopher retain the books in Paris until she required them, and act as her librarian with a yearly salary. Between October 1773 and March 1774, the sick Diderot spent a few months at the empress's court in Saint Petersburg.   Diderot died of pulmonary thrombosis in Paris on 31 July 1784, and was buried in the city's Église Saint-Roch. His heirs sent his vast library to Catherine II, who had it deposited at the National Library of Russia. He has several times been denied burial in the Panthéon with other French notables. The French government considered memorializing him in this fashion on the 300th anniversary of his birth, but this did not come to pass.   Diderot's literary reputation during his lifetime rested primarily on his plays and his contributions to the Encyclopédie; many of his most important works, including Jacques the Fatalist, Rameau's Nephew, Paradox of the Actor, and D'Alembert's Dream, were published only after his death.
Dennis Lehane (born August 4, 1965) is an American author. He has published more than a dozen novels; the first several were a series of mysteries featuring a couple of protagonists and other recurring characters, including A Drink Before the War. Of these, his fourth, Gone, Baby, Gone, was adapted as a 2007 film of the same name.   Lehane has taken on different topics in other novels. Those adapted as films of the same name included Mystic River (2001), with a 2003 film by the same name, directed by Clint Eastwood, which won several awards. Shutter Island was adapted as a 2010 film directed by Martin Scorsese.
Derek Landy (born 23 October 1974) is an Irish author and screenwriter, best known for the Skulduggery Pleasant series of young adult's books.
Dexter Palmer is an American novelist and short-story writer. His novels are notable for bringing a literary, character-driven sensibility to genres like steampunk and speculative fiction, and to themes like time travel.  Biography   Palmer lives in Princeton, NJ. He attended Stetson University as an undergraduate. He holds a Ph.D. in English Literature from Princeton University. In 2012, he participated in the Key West Literary Seminar: "Yet Another World: Literature of the Future".  Writing   Palmer has published two books. His first novel, The Dream of Perpetual Motion (2010), was inspired by Shakespeare's The Tempest. Writing in The New York Times, novelist Jeff Vandermeer called it "a singular riff on steampunk — sophisticated, subversive entertainment that never settles for escapism." Fiction-writer Elizabeth Hand, reviewing The Dream of Perpetual Motion for The Washington Post, called it "an extravagantly wondrous and admirable first novel," noting a resemblance to the work of Angela Carter.   Palmer's second book, Version Control, appeared in 2016 to wide acclaim. In a review for NPR, Jason Heller described the novel as "a thoughtful, powerful overhaul of the age-old time travel tale, one that doesn't radically deconstruct the genre so much as explore it more broadly and deeply." The book received a starred review in Kirkus Reviews, where it was compared to the novels of Jonathan Franzen, though its speculative elements were also noted. It was included on The Washington Post's list of "The Best Fantasy and Science Fiction of 2016;" as well as "Best of 2016" lists by GQ and Buzzfeed.  References   1. ^ "1995 Stetson yearbook photo of Dexter Palmer". Stetson University. 1995. Retrieved February 10, 2018.  2. ^ "Dexter Palmer". Retrieved February 10, 2018.  3. ^ "2012-Key West Literary Seminar". Retrieved February 10, 2018.  4. ^ Vandermeer, Jeff. "Malevolent Design". New York Times.  5. ^ Hand, Elizabeth. "Book review: Elizabeth Hand reviews 'The Dream of Perpetual Motion' by Dexter Palmer". The Washington Post.  6. ^ Heller, Jason. "'Version Control' Is A Dizzying Elevation Of The Time-Travel Tale". NPR.  7. ^ "Version Control". Kirkus.  8. ^ Hightower, Nancy. "Best science fiction and fantasy of 2016". The Washington Post.  9. ^ Nguyen, Kevin. "These Are the Best Books of 2016". GQ.  10. ^ Fitzgerald, Isaac. "The 24 Best Fiction Books Of 2016". Buzzfeed.
Diana Wynne Jones (16 August 1934 – 26 March 2011) was a British novelist, poet, academic, and short story writer. She principally wrote fantasy and speculative fiction novels for children and adults.   Some of her better-known works are the Chrestomanci series, the Dalemark series; the novels Howl's Moving Castle and Dark Lord of Derkholm; and The Tough Guide To Fantasyland.   She has been cited as an inspiration and muse for several fantasy and science fiction authors: including Phillip Pullman, Neil Gaiman, Terry Pratchett, Penelope Lively, Robin McKinley, Megan Whalen Turner, J K Rowling and Dina Rabinovitch.   Her work has been nominated for several awards, among them twice as a finalist for the Hugo Award, fourteen times for the Locus Award, seven times for the Mythopoeic Award (which she would win twice out of those seven nominations), twice for a British Fantasy Award (won in 1999), and twice for a World Fantasy Award, which she would also end up winning in 2007.
Diane Setterfield (born 22 August 1964) is a British author whose 2006 debut novel, The Thirteenth Tale, became a New York Times No. 1 best-seller. It is written in the Gothic tradition, with echoes of Jane Eyre and Wuthering Heights. The rights were acquired by David Heyman at Heyday Films and the novel was adapted for television by Christopher Hampton. Starring Vanessa Redgrave, Olivia Colman, and Sophie Turner, The Thirteenth Tale was televised on BBC2 in December 2013.   Before writing, Setterfield studied French Literature at The University of Bristol, earning a bachelor of arts in 1986 and a PhD in 1993. Setterfield's PhD is on "autobiographical structures in André Gide's early fiction." Setterfield taught at numerous schools as well as privately before leaving academia in the late 1990s.   Diane Setterfield's new novel, Bellman & Black, was published in the autumn of 2013 by Emily Bestler Books/Atria in the United States and by Orion in the UK.   Diane Setterfield currently lives in Oxford, England.  Novels   - The Thirteenth Tale (2006) - Bellman & Black (2013) - Once Upon A River Atria/Emily Bestler Books, 2018  References    1. ^ "BEST SELLERS: October 8, 2006". The New York Times. 8 October 2006. Retrieved 23 December 2006.  2. ^ "Vanessa Redgrave, Olivia Colman to Star in BBC Drama 'The Thirteenth Tale'". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved 2018-11-25.  3. ^ The Thirteenth Tale, retrieved 2018-11-25  4. ^ Bristol, University of. "2006: Three graduates | News | University of Bristol". www.bristol.ac.uk. Retrieved 2018-11-25.  5. ^ "Exclusive interview with Diane Setterfield". Retrieved 2018-11-25.  6. ^ Bellman & Black. 2014-06-10. ISBN 9781476711997.  7. ^ Diane Setterfield - Bellman & Black - Orion Publishing Group.  8. ^ "Diane Setterfield". Simon & Schuster. Retrieved 2018-11-25.  9. ^ "Reviewed by Steve Nathans-Kelly in New York Journal of Books". 2018-12-04. Retrieved 2018-12-12.  External links   - "Diane Setterfield: Official website of Diane Setterfield". Diane Setterfield. - Biography at Book Browse      This article about a novelist from the United Kingdom is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
Diet Eman (born April 30, 1920) is a Dutch Resistance worker during World War II and author of the book Things We Couldn't Say.  War experience   Eman grew up in a middle-class, business-owning, Christian family in The Hague. Her wartime experience began on May 10, 1940, when she awoke in the night to the sound of aircraft battle; she knew immediately that this meant Hitler's forces had invaded the Netherlands despite promises otherwise. Her brother-in-law, in fact, was killed the first day. Immediately, Eman began her work against the Nazi regime: she and her fiancé, Hein Sietsma, established a Resistance group with friends.   Initially, Eman's resistance group listened to forbidden BBC war news broadcasts and spread the information to as many people as possible. These efforts grew, however, as the Nazi regime began enacting anti-Semitic laws. Eman soon worked to find a place to hide for a friend being threatened with "relocation," meaning movement to a concentration camp. This action spiraled into relocating 60 people in safe houses in cities as well as rural areas. Because of the large number of Jewish individuals fleeing persecution, Eman was routinely confronted with the problem of housing too many individuals in one place, which was even more dangerous in an urban setting. To try to alleviate this challenge, Eman continually delivered, by bicycle and trains, false ID papers as well as extra ration cards to those who needed these resources. She also carried personal mail to and from evacuees' families, who dared not leave their tiny confined spaces nor receive official postal mail. She also helped launder evacuees' money as it was recalled for newer-issued banknotes.   Despite Eman's efforts at discretion and strategy, the Gestapo soon discovered her identity and her connection to Resistance work. Fearing arrest, she fled from her home to a family on a dairy farm named Watergoor where she found refuge and a new identity. At this new location, her Resistance work continued; she even tracked Nazi troop movements and stores of military equipment. On April 26, 1944, her fiance Sietsma was arrested; this once again jeopardized Eman's identity and she changed her name again. Eman now had a premonition of her own arrest. Despite these ill feelings, she kept working with the Resistance. Unfortunately, her premonition proved to be true.   While traveling by train, Eman was asked for her ID, which was immediately identified as fake. Removed from the train for questioning, Eman knew she would be questioned and the pack of illegal documents she was carrying would be discovered, leading to her arrest and even death. Thankfully, at the last moment, Eman had a chance to dispose of the documents at a busy station when the officers were distracted. Eman was still taken to prison in Scheveningen because of her fake ID, and on to the Vught concentration camp for questioning, where she met the celebrated Corrie and Betsy Ten Boom. At the concentration camp, Eman was assigned to work in the laundry; she was very distraught at having to scrub the bloodied clothes of civilian prisoners who were executed nightly by SS men, and she had a total emotional breakdown.   Soon it was time for Eman's trial. Because she had so thoroughly remembered her false identity, and pretended to be a simple, naive housemaid, she was released and survived until the end of the Nazi regime, continuing her secret delivery work under increasingly impoverished conditions. Her fiance Hein Sietsma, however, died at the Dachau concentration camp in January 1945.  After the war   Eman received thanks from numerous leaders for her efforts, including General Eisenhower in 1946 and President Ronald Reagan in 1982. She was awarded the Righteous Among Nations award in 1998 by Yad Vashem.   Eman left the Netherlands after the war, married and raised two children , and worked as a nurse in Venezuela and Michigan. She did not speak about her Resistance work until 1978. That year, she spoke at a "Suffering and Survival" convention. There she met Dr. James Schaap who worked with Eman to write her memoir, Things We Couldn't Say, which was published in 1994.   Eman currently resides in Grand Rapids, Michigan. In April 2016, a local ballet troop in Grand Rapids performed "It Is Well," the story of Eman's wartime experiences. Eman was even present in the audience for her 96th birthday, when the dancers sang her the Dutch birthday song "Lang zal ze leven (Long shall she live)."  References    1. ^ Eman, Diet. Things We Couldn't Say. Grand Rapids, MI: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company. ISBN 0802837638.  2. ^ Atwood, Kathryn J. Women Heroes of World War II. Chicago: Chicago Review Press. p. 94. ISBN 9781556529610.  3. ^ a b Atwood, Kathryn J. Women Heroes of World War II. Chicago: Chicago Review Press. p. 95. ISBN 9781556529610.  4. ^ a b Atwood, Kathryn J. Women Heroes of World War II. Chicago: Chicago Review Press. p. 96. ISBN 9781556529610.  5. ^ Atwood, Kathryn J. Women Heroes of World War II. Chicago: Chicago Review Press. p. 947. ISBN 9781556529610.  6. ^ a b Atwood, Kathryn J. Women Heroes of World War II. Chicago: Chicago Review Press. p. 97. ISBN 9781556529610.  7. ^ a b c Atwood, Kathryn J. Women Heroes of World War II. Chicago: Chicago Review Press. p. 98. ISBN 9781556529610.  8. ^ a b Atwood, Kathryn J. Women Heroes of World War II. Chicago: Chicago Review Press. p. 101. ISBN 9781556529610.  9. ^ Atwood, Kathryn J. Women Heroes of World War II. Chicago: Chicago Review Press. pp. 100–101. ISBN 9781556529610.  10. ^ "The Righteous Among The Nations: Eman, Berendina R.H." Yad Vashem.  11. ^ "The Righteous Among The Nations: Eman Family, Berendina Eman". Yad Vashem.  12. ^ a b Atwood, Kathryn J. Women Heroes of World War II. Chicago: Chicago Review Press. p. 100. ISBN 9781556529610.  13. ^ Eman, Diet, and James C. Schaap. Things We Couldn't Say: A Dramatic Account of Christian Resistance in Holland During World War II. Silverton, OR: Lighthouse Trails Pub, 2008. ISBN 9780979131578  14. ^ Karsyn, Ally. "Dordt professor's WWII play tells true story of Dutch woman who rescued Jews". Sioux City Journal. Retrieved 2017-07-02.  15. ^ Timmer, Lori. "Spring Ballet: 'It Is Well' shares the story of Diet Eman".
Dietrich Bonhoeffer (German: [ˈdiːtʁɪç ˈboːnhœfɐ]; 4 February 1906 – 9 April 1945) was a German pastor, theologian, anti-Nazi dissident, and key founding member of the Confessing Church. His writings on Christianity's role in the secular world have become widely influential, and his book The Cost of Discipleship has been described as a modern classic.   Apart from his theological writings, Bonhoeffer was known for his staunch resistance to Nazi dictatorship, including vocal opposition to Hitler's euthanasia program and genocidal persecution of the Jews. He was arrested in April 1943 by the Gestapo and imprisoned at Tegel prison for one and a half years. Later, he was transferred to a Nazi concentration camp. After being accused of being associated with the July 20 plot to assassinate Adolf Hitler, he was quickly tried, along with other accused plotters, including former members of the Abwehr (the German Military Intelligence Office), and then executed by hanging on 9 April 1945 as the Nazi regime was collapsing.
Diogenes (/daɪˈɒdʒəˌniːz/; Greek: Διογένης, Diogenēs [di.oɡénɛ͜ɛs]), also known as Diogenes the Cynic (Ancient Greek: Διογένης ὁ Κυνικός, Diogenēs ho Kynikos), was a Greek philosopher and one of the founders of Cynic philosophy. He was born in Sinope, an Ionian colony on the Black Sea, in 412 or 404 BC and died at Corinth in 323 BC.   Diogenes was a controversial figure. His father minted coins for a living, and Diogenes was banished from Sinope when he took to debasement of currency. After being exiled, he moved to Athens and criticized many cultural conventions of the city. He modeled himself on the example of Heracles, and believed that virtue was better revealed in action than in theory. He used his simple life-style and behaviour to criticize the social values and institutions of what he saw as a corrupt, confused society. He had a reputation for sleeping and eating wherever he chose in a highly non-traditional fashion, and took to toughening himself against nature. He declared himself a cosmopolitan and a citizen of the world rather than claiming allegiance to just one place. There are many tales about his dogging Antisthenes' footsteps and becoming his "faithful hound".   Diogenes made a virtue of poverty. He begged for a living and often slept in a large ceramic jar in the marketplace. He became notorious for his philosophical stunts, such as carrying a lamp during the day, claiming to be looking for an honest man. He criticized Plato, disputed his interpretation of Socrates, and sabotaged his lectures, sometimes distracting listeners by bringing food and eating during the discussions. Diogenes was also noted for having mocked Alexander the Great, both in public and to his face when he visited Corinth in 336.   Diogenes was captured by pirates and sold into slavery, eventually settling in Corinth. There he passed his philosophy of Cynicism to Crates, who taught it to Zeno of Citium, who fashioned it into the school of Stoicism, one of the most enduring schools of Greek philosophy. None of Diogenes' writings have survived, but there are some details of his life from anecdotes (chreia), especially from Diogenes Laërtius' book Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers and some other sources.
Dion Fortune (born Violet Mary Firth, 6 December 1890 – 6 January 1946) was a British occultist, Christian Qabalist, ceremonial magician, novelist and author. She was a co-founder of the Fraternity of the Inner Light, an occult organisation that promoted philosophies which she claimed had been taught to her by spiritual entities known as the Ascended Masters. A prolific writer, she produced a large number of articles and books on her occult ideas and also authored seven novels, several of which expound occult themes.   Fortune was born in Llandudno, North Wales, to a wealthy upper middle-class English family, although little is known of her early life. By her teenage years she was living in England's West Country, where she wrote two books of poetry. After time spent at a horticultural college she began studying psychology and psychoanalysis at the University of London before working as a counsellor in a psychotherapy clinic. During the First World War she joined the Women's Land Army and established a company selling soy milk products. She became interested in esotericism through the teachings of the Theosophical Society, before joining an occult lodge led by Theodore Moriarty and then the Alpha et Omega occult organisation.   She came to believe that she was being contacted by the Ascended Masters, including "the Master Jesus", and underwent trance mediumship to channel the Masters' messages. In 1922 Fortune and Charles Loveday claimed that during one of these ceremonies they were contacted by Masters who provided them with a text, The Cosmic Doctrine. Although she became the president of the Christian Mystic Lodge of the Theosophical Society, she believed the society to be uninterested in Christianity, and split from it to form the Community of the Inner Light, a group later renamed the Fraternity of the Inner Light. With Loveday she established bases in both Glastonbury and Bayswater, London, began issuing a magazine, gave public lectures, and promoted the growth of their society. During the Second World War she organised a project of meditations and visualisations designed to protect Britain. She began planning for what she believed was a coming post-war Age of Aquarius, although she died of leukemia shortly after the war's end.   Fortune is recognised as one of the most significant occultists and ceremonial magicians of the early 20th century. The Fraternity she founded survived her and in later decades spawned a variety of related groups based upon her teachings. Her novels in particular proved an influence on later occult and modern Pagan groups such as Wicca.
Donald Davidson is the name of:    - Donald Davidson (poet) (1893–1968), American poet - Donald Davidson (philosopher) (1917–2003), American philosopher - Donald Davidson (historian), historian of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway
Donna Tartt (born December 23, 1963) is an American writer, the author of the novels The Secret History (1992), The Little Friend (2002), and The Goldfinch (2013). Tartt won the WH Smith Literary Award for The Little Friend in 2003 and the Pulitzer Prize for fiction for The Goldfinch in 2014. She was included in the list of the "100 Most Influential People" compiled by Time magazine in 2014.
Don Roff (born December 13, 1966, in Walla Walla, Washington) is a writer and filmmaker.   Roff grew up in Milton-Freewater, Oregon. He worked at the local drive-in theater and made Super 8 mm and VHS movies with his neighborhood friends. He graduated from McLoughlin Union High School in 1985. Roff joined the United States Army in 1989 and became a US Army Ranger. He was stationed at Fort Benning, Georgia in the 3d Ranger Battalion, and was a part of Operation Just Cause in Panama. He graduated from Walla Walla Community College in 1995 and The Evergreen State College in 1997. After living in Seattle, Washington and New York City, Roff returned to Walla Walla, Washington in 2011. He practices veganism. In June 2006, Roff received the Zola Award for screenwriting from the Pacific Northwest Writers Association.
Dorothy Parker (née Rothschild; August 22, 1893 – June 7, 1967) was an American poet, writer, critic, and satirist based in New York; she was best known for her wit, wisecracks, and eye for 20th-century urban foibles.   From a conflicted and unhappy childhood, Parker rose to acclaim, both for her literary works published in such magazines as The New Yorker and as a founding member of the Algonquin Round Table. Following the breakup of the circle, Parker traveled to Hollywood to pursue screenwriting. Her successes there, including two Academy Award nominations, were curtailed when her involvement in left-wing politics resulted in the being placed on the Hollywood blacklist.   Dismissive of her own talents, she deplored her reputation as a "wisecracker." Nevertheless, both her literary output and reputation for sharp wit have endured.
Douglas Coupland (/ˈkoʊplənd/ KOHP-lənd) OC OBC (born December 30, 1961) is a Canadian novelist and artist. His fiction is complemented by recognized works in design and visual art arising from his early formal training. His first novel, the 1991 international bestseller Generation X: Tales for an Accelerated Culture, popularized terms such as "McJob" and "Generation X". He has published thirteen novels, two collections of short stories, seven non-fiction books, and a number of dramatic works and screenplays for film and television. He is a columnist for Financial Times. He is also a frequent contributor to The New York Times, e-flux journal, Dis, and Vice. His art exhibits include Everywhere is Anywhere is Anything is Everything which was exhibited at the Vancouver Art Gallery, and the Royal Ontario Museum and the Museum of Contemporary Canadian Art, and Bit Rot at Rotterdam's Witte de With Center for Contemporary Art and the Villa Stuck.   Coupland is an Officer of the Order of Canada, and a member of the Order of British Columbia. He published his thirteenth novel Worst. Person. Ever. in 2012. He also released an updated version of City of Glass and a biography of Marshall McLuhan for Penguin Canada in their Extraordinary Canadians series, called Extraordinary Canadians: Marshall McLuhan. He is the presenter of the 2010 Massey Lectures, and a companion novel to the lectures, Player One – What Is to Become of Us: A Novel in Five Hours. Coupland has been longlisted twice for the Scotiabank Giller Prize in 2006 and 2010, was a finalist for the Writers' Trust Fiction Prize in 2009, and was nominated for the Hubert Evans Non-Fiction Prize in 2011 for Extraordinary Canadians: Marshall McLuhan.
Doyle is often referred to as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle or simply Conan Doyle (implying that "Conan" is part of a compound surname as opposed to his given middle name). His baptism entry in the register of St Mary's Cathedral, Edinburgh, gives "Arthur Ignatius Conan" as his given names and "Doyle" as his surname. It also names Michael Conan as his godfather. The cataloguers of the British Library and the Library of Congress treat "Doyle" alone as his surname.   Steven Doyle, editor of The Baker Street Journal, wrote, "Conan was Arthur's middle name. Shortly after he graduated from high school he began using Conan as a sort of surname. But technically his last name is simply 'Doyle'." When knighted, he was gazetted as Doyle, not under the compound Conan Doyle.  Early life  Portrait of Doyle by Herbert Rose Barraud, 1893   Doyle was born on 22 May 1859 at 11 Picardy Place, Edinburgh, Scotland. His father, Charles Altamont Doyle, was born in England, of Irish Catholic descent, and his mother, Mary (née Foley), was Irish Catholic. His parents married in 1855. In 1864 the family dispersed because of Charles's growing alcoholism, and the children were temporarily housed across Edinburgh. In 1867, the family came together again and lived in squalid tenement flats at 3 Sciennes Place. Doyle's father died in 1893, in the Crichton Royal, Dumfries, after many years of psychiatric illness.   Supported by wealthy uncles, Doyle was sent to England, at the Jesuit preparatory school Hodder Place, Stonyhurst in Lancashire at the age of nine (1868–70). He then went on to Stonyhurst College until 1875. While Doyle was not unhappy at Stonyhurst, he did not have any fond memories since the school was run on medieval principles, with subjects covering rudiments, rhetoric, Euclidean geometry, algebra, and the classics. Doyle commented later in his life that the academic system could only be excused "on the plea that any exercise, however stupid in itself, forms a sort of mental dumbbell by which one can improve one's mind." He also found it harsh, citing that instead of compassion and warmth, it favoured the threat of corporal punishment and ritual humiliation.   From 1875 to 1876, he was educated at the Jesuit school Stella Matutina in Feldkirch, Austria. His family decided that he would spend a year there with the objective of perfecting his German and broadening his academic horizons. He later rejected the Catholic faith and became an agnostic. A source attributed his drift from religion to science and reason to the time spent in the less strict Austrian school. He also later became a spiritualist mystic.  Medical career   From 1876 to 1881, Doyle studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh Medical School, including periods working in Aston (then a town in Warwickshire, now part of Birmingham), Sheffield and Ruyton-XI-Towns, Shropshire. During that time, he studied practical botany at the Royal Botanic Garden in Edinburgh. While studying, Doyle began writing short stories. His earliest extant fiction, "The Haunted Grange of Goresthorpe", was unsuccessfully submitted to Blackwood's Magazine. His first published piece, "The Mystery of Sasassa Valley", a story set in South Africa, was printed in Chambers's Edinburgh Journal on 6 September 1879. On 20 September 1879, he published his first academic article, "Gelsemium as a Poison" in the British Medical Journal, a study which The Daily Telegraph regarded as potentially useful in a 21st-century murder investigation.   Professor Challenger by Harry Rountree in the novella The Poison Belt published in The Strand Magazine   Doyle was the doctor on the Greenland whaler Hope of Peterhead in 1880. On July 11, 1880 John Gray's Hope and David Gray's Eclipse met up with the Eira and Leigh Smith. Photographer W.J.A. Grant took a photograph aboard the Eira of Doyle along with Smith, the Gray brothers, and ships surgeon William Neale. This was the Smith exploration of Franz Josef Land that on August 18th resulted in the naming of Cape Flora, Bell Island, Nightingale Sound, Gratton ("Uncle Joe") Island, and Mabel Island.   As M.B., C.M. after his graduation from university in 1881, he was ship's surgeon on the SS Mayumba during a voyage to the West African coast. He completed his Doctor of Medicine degree (an advanced degree in Scotland beyond the usual medical degrees) on the subject of tabes dorsalis in 1885.   In 1882, Doyle joined former classmate George Turnavine Budd as his partner at a medical practice in Plymouth, but their relationship proved difficult, and Doyle soon left to set up an independent practice. Arriving in Portsmouth in June 1882, with less than £10 (£900 today) to his name, he set up a medical practice at 1 Bush Villas in Elm Grove, Southsea. The practice was not successful. While waiting for patients, Doyle returned to writing fiction.   Doyle was a staunch supporter of compulsory vaccination and wrote several articles advocating for the practice and denouncing the views of anti-vaccinators.   In early 1891, Doyle attempted the study of ophthalmology in Vienna. He had previously studied at the Portsmouth Eye Hospital to qualify to perform eye tests and prescribe glasses. Vienna was suggested by his friend Vernon Morris as a place to spend six months and train to be an eye surgeon. Doyle found it too difficult to understand the German medical terms at the classes in Vienna and quickly quit his studies there. For the rest of his two-month stay in Vienna, he pursued other activities, such as ice skating with his wife Louisa and drinking with Brinsley Richards of the London Times. He also wrote The Doings of Raffles Haw.   After visiting Venice and Milan, he spent a few days in Paris observing Edmund Landolt, an expert on diseases of the eye. Within three months of his departure for Vienna, Doyle returned to London. He opened a small office and consulting room at 2 Upper Wimpole Street, or 2 Devonshire Place as it was then. A Westminster City Council commemorative plaque is over the front door. He had no patients according to his autobiography and his efforts as an ophthalmologist were a failure.  Literary career Main article: Arthur Conan Doyle bibliography Sherlock Holmes   Doyle struggled to find a publisher for his work. His first work featuring Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson, A Study in Scarlet, was taken by Ward Lock & Co on 20 November 1886, giving Doyle £25 (£2500 today) for all rights to the story. The piece appeared one year later in the Beeton's Christmas Annual and received good reviews in The Scotsman and the Glasgow Herald.   Holmes was partially modelled on his former university teacher Joseph Bell. In 1892, in a letter to Bell, Doyle wrote, "It is most certainly to you that I owe Sherlock Holmes ... round the centre of deduction and inference and observation which I have heard you inculcate I have tried to build up a man", and in his 1924 autobiography he remarked, "It is no wonder that after the study of such a character [viz., Bell] I used and amplified his methods when in later life I tried to build up a scientific detective who solved cases on his own merits and not through the folly of the criminal." Robert Louis Stevenson was able, even in faraway Samoa, to recognise the strong similarity between Joseph Bell and Sherlock Holmes: "My compliments on your very ingenious and very interesting adventures of Sherlock Holmes. ... can this be my old friend Joe Bell?" Other authors sometimes suggest additional influences—for instance, the famous Edgar Allan Poe character C. Auguste Dupin. Dr. (John) Watson owes his surname, but not any other obvious characteristic, to a Portsmouth medical colleague of Doyle's, Dr James Watson.   A sequel to A Study in Scarlet was commissioned, and The Sign of the Four appeared in Lippincott's Magazine in February 1890, under agreement with the Ward Lock company. Doyle felt grievously exploited by Ward Lock as an author new to the publishing world and he left them. Short stories featuring Sherlock Holmes were published in the Strand Magazine. Doyle wrote the first five Holmes short stories from his office at 2 Upper Wimpole Street (then known as Devonshire Place), which is now marked by a memorial plaque.   Portrait of Sherlock Holmes by Sidney Paget, 1904  Sherlock Holmes statue in Edinburgh, erected opposite the birthplace of Doyle, which was demolished c. 1970   Doyle's attitude towards his most famous creation was ambivalent. In November 1891 he wrote to his mother: "I think of slaying Holmes, ... and winding him up for good and all. He takes my mind from better things." His mother responded, "You won't! You can't! You mustn't!" In an attempt to deflect publishers' demands for more Holmes stories, he raised his price to a level intended to discourage them, but found they were willing to pay even the large sums he asked. As a result, he became one of the best-paid authors of his time.   In December 1893, to dedicate more of his time to his historical novels, Doyle had Holmes and Professor Moriarty plunge to their deaths together down the Reichenbach Falls in the story "The Final Problem". Public outcry, however, led him to feature Holmes in 1901 in the novel The Hound of the Baskervilles.   In 1903, Doyle published his first Holmes short story in ten years, "The Adventure of the Empty House", in which it was explained that only Moriarty had fallen, but since Holmes had other dangerous enemies—especially Colonel Sebastian Moran—he had arranged to also be perceived as dead. Holmes was ultimately featured in a total of 56 short stories—the last published in 1927—and four novels by Doyle, and has since appeared in many novels and stories by other authors.   Jane Stanford compares some of Moriarty's characteristics to those of the Fenian John O'Connor Power. "The Final Problem" was published the year the Second Home Rule Bill passed through the House of Commons. "The Valley of Fear" was serialised in 1914, the year Home Rule, the Government of Ireland Act (18 September) was placed on the Statute Book.  Other works  Doyle's house in South Norwood  Doyle's first novels were The Mystery of Cloomber, not published until 1888, and the unfinished Narrative of John Smith, published only in 2011. He amassed a portfolio of short stories including "The Captain of the Pole-Star" and "J. Habakuk Jephson's Statement", both inspired by Doyle's time at sea. The latter popularised the mystery of the Mary Celeste and added fictional details such as the perfect condition of the ship (which had actually taken on water by the time it was discovered) and its boats remaining on board (the one boat was in fact missing) that have come to dominate popular accounts of the incident. Doyle's spelling of the ship's name as Marie Celeste has become more common in everyday use than the original form.   Between 1888 and 1906, Doyle wrote seven historical novels, which he and many critics regarded as his best work. He also authored nine other novels, and later in his career (1912–29) five narratives, two of novel length, featuring the irascible scientist Professor Challenger. The Challenger stories include what is probably his best-known work after the Holmes oeuvre, The Lost World. His historical novels include Sir Nigel and its follow-up The White Company, set in the Middle Ages. He was a prolific author of short stories, including two collections set in Napoleonic times featuring the French character Brigadier Gerard.   Doyle's stage works include Waterloo, the reminiscences of an English veteran of the Napoleonic Wars, the character of Gregory Brewster being written for Henry Irving; The House of Temperley, the plot of which reflects his abiding interest in boxing; The Speckled Band, after the short story "The Adventure of the Speckled Band"; and the 1893 collaboration with J.M. Barrie on the libretto of Jane Annie.  Sporting career   While living in Southsea, the seaside resort of Portsmouth, Doyle played football as a goalkeeper for Portsmouth Association Football Club, an amateur side, under the pseudonym A. C. Smith.   Doyle was a keen cricketer, and between 1899 and 1907 he played 10 first-class matches for the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC). He also played for the amateur cricket team the Allahakbarries alongside authors J. M. Barrie and A. A. Milne. His highest score, in 1902 against London County, was 43. He was an occasional bowler who took just one first-class wicket, although one of the highest pedigree as it was W. G. Grace.   Doyle was an amateur boxer. In 1909, he was invited to referee the James Jeffries–Jack Johnson heavyweight championship fight in Reno, Nevada. Doyle wrote, "I was much inclined to accept...though my friends pictured me as winding up with a revolver at one ear and a razor at the other. However, the distance and my engagements presented a final bar."   Also a keen golfer, Doyle was elected captain of the Crowborough Beacon Golf Club in Sussex for 1910. He had moved to Little Windlesham house in Crowborough with Jean Leckie, his second wife, and resided there with his family from 1907 until his death in July 1930.)  Family life  Arthur Conan Doyle by George Wylie Hutchinson, 1894   In 1885 Doyle married Louisa (sometimes called "Touie") Hawkins (10 April 1857 – 4 July 1906). She was the youngest daughter of J. Hawkins, of Minsterworth, Gloucestershire, and the sister of one of Doyle's patients. Louisa suffered from tuberculosis. In 1907 he married Jean Elizabeth Leckie (14 March 1874 – 27 June 1940), whom he had first met and fallen in love with in 1897. He had maintained a platonic relationship with Jean while his first wife was still alive, out of loyalty to her. Jean died in London.   Doyle fathered five children. He had two with his first wife: Mary Louise (28 January 1889 – 12 June 1976) and Arthur Alleyne Kingsley, known as Kingsley (15 November 1892 – 28 October 1918). He had an additional three with his second wife: Denis Percy Stewart (17 March 1909 – 9 March 1955), second husband of Georgian Princess Nina Mdivani; Adrian Malcolm (19 November 1910 – 3 June 1970); and Jean Lena Annette (21 December 1912 – 18 November 1997). All of Doyle's five children died without issue, leaving him with no grandchildren or direct descendants.  Political campaigning   Following the Boer War in South Africa at the turn of the 20th century and the condemnation from some quarters over the United Kingdom's role, Doyle wrote a short work titled The War in South Africa: Its Cause and Conduct, which argued that the UK's role in the Boer War was justified, and which was widely translated. Doyle had served as a volunteer doctor in the Langman Field Hospital at Bloemfontein between March and June 1900. Doyle believed that this publication was responsible for his being knighted as a Knight Bachelor by King Edward VII in 1902 and for his appointment as a Deputy-Lieutenant of Surrey. Also in 1900 he wrote a book, The Great Boer War.   He stood for Parliament twice as a Liberal Unionist—in 1900 in Edinburgh Central and in 1906 in the Hawick Burghs—but although he received a respectable vote, he was not elected. Doyle was appointed a Knight of Grace of the Order of the Hospital of Saint John of Jerusalem in 1903.   Doyle was a supporter of the campaign for the reform of the Congo Free State, led by the journalist E. D. Morel and diplomat Roger Casement. During 1909 he wrote The Crime of the Congo, a long pamphlet in which he denounced the horrors of that colony. He became acquainted with Morel and Casement, and it is possible that, together with Bertram Fletcher Robinson, they inspired several characters in the 1912 novel The Lost World. Doyle broke with Robinson when he became one of the leaders of the pacifist movement during the First World War. When Casement was found guilty of treason against the Crown after the Easter Rising, Doyle tried unsuccessfully to save him from facing the death penalty, arguing that Casement had been driven mad and could not be held responsible for his actions.  Justice advocate  Doyle statue in Crowborough, East Sussex   Doyle was also a fervent advocate of justice and personally investigated two closed cases, which led to two men being exonerated of the crimes of which they were accused. The first case, in 1906, involved a shy half-British, half-Indian lawyer named George Edalji who had allegedly penned threatening letters and mutilated animals in Great Wyrley. Police were set on Edalji's conviction, even though the mutilations continued after their suspect was jailed. Apart from helping George Edalji, Doyle's work helped establish a way to correct other miscarriages of justice, as it was partially as a result of this case that the Court of Criminal Appeal was established in 1907.   The story of Doyle and Edalji was dramatised in an episode of the 1972 BBC television series, The Edwardians. In Nicholas Meyer's pastiche The West End Horror (1976), Holmes manages to help clear the name of a shy Parsi Indian character wronged by the English justice system. Edalji was of Parsi heritage on his father's side. The story was fictionalised in Julian Barnes's 2005 novel Arthur and George, which was adapted into a three-part drama by ITV in 2015.   The second case, that of Oscar Slater, a Yekke and gambling-den operator convicted of bludgeoning an 82-year-old woman in Glasgow in 1908, excited Doyle's curiosity because of inconsistencies in the prosecution case and a general sense that Slater was not guilty. He ended up paying most of the costs for Slater's successful appeal in 1928.  Spiritualism, Freemasonry   Doyle had a longstanding interest in mystical subjects. He was initiated as a Freemason (26 January 1887) at the Phoenix Lodge No. 257 in Southsea. He resigned from the Lodge in 1889, but returned to it in 1902, only to resign again in 1911.   Also in Southsea in 1887, influenced by a member of the Portsmouth Literary and Philosophical Society, Major-General Alfred Wilks Drayson, he began a series of psychic investigations. These included attending around 20 seances, experiments in telepathy and sittings with mediums. Writing to Spiritualist journal Light, that year, he declared himself to be a Spiritualist and spoke of one particular psychic event that had convinced him.   Though he later wavered, he remained fascinated by the paranormal. He was a founding member of the Hampshire Society for Psychical Research in 1889 and joined the London-based Society for Psychical Research in 1893. He joined Sir Sidney Scott and Frank Podmore on a poltergeist investigation in Devon in 1894. Nevertheless, during this period, he remained, in essence, a dilettante.   During 1916, at the height of World War I, a change came over Conan Doyle's beliefs prompted by the apparent psychic abilities of his children's nanny, Lily Loder Symonds. This, combined with the deaths he saw around him, made him rationalise that Spiritualism was a "New Revelation" sent by God to bring solace to the bereaved. The New Revelation was the title of his first Spiritualist work, published two years later. In the intervening years, he wrote to Light magazine about his faith and lectured frequently on the truth of Spiritualism.   War-related deaths close to him certainly strengthened his long-held belief in life after death and spirit communication, though it is wrong to claim that the death of his son, Kingsley, turned him to Spiritualism, as is often stated. Doyle came out as a Spiritualist to the public in 1916, a full two years before his son's death. It was on 28 October 1918 that Kingsley died from pneumonia contracted during his convalescence after being seriously wounded in the 1916 Battle of the Somme. Doyle's brother Brigadier-general Innes Doyle died, also from pneumonia, in February 1919. His two brothers-in-law (one of whom was E. W. Hornung, creator of the literary character Raffles) and his two nephews also died shortly after the war. His second book on Spiritualism, The Vital Message, appeared in 1919.   Doyle found solace supporting spiritualism and its attempts to find proof of existence beyond the grave. In particular, according to some, he favoured Christian Spiritualism and encouraged the Spiritualists' National Union to accept an eighth precept – that of following the teachings and example of Jesus of Nazareth. He was a member of the renowned supernatural organisation The Ghost Club.   Doyle with his family in New York City, 1922   In 1919 the magician P. T. Selbit staged a séance at his own flat in Bloomsbury, with Doyle in attendance. Some later commentators have stated that he declared the clairvoyance manifestations to be genuine. However, the contemporary report by the Sunday Express quotes Doyle as saying: "I should have to see it again before passing a definite opinion on it," and: "I have my doubts about the whole thing". In 1920, Doyle debated the claims of Spiritualism with the notable sceptic Joseph McCabe at Queen's Hall in London. McCabe later published his evidence against the claims of Doyle and Spiritualism in a booklet entitled Is Spiritualism Based on Fraud? which claimed Doyle had been duped into believing Spiritualism by mediumship trickery.   Doyle believed that many cases of diagnosed mental illness were the result of spirit possession. He debated the psychiatrist Harold Dearden, who was diametrically opposed to Doyle's views. He travelled to Australia and New Zealand on spiritualist missionary work in 1920, and continued his mission all the way up to his death, speaking about his spiritualist conviction in Britain, Europe, and the United States.   One of the five photographs of Frances Griffiths with the alleged fairies, taken by Elsie Wright in July 1917   Doyle was also inspired by his Spiritualist beliefs to write a novel on the subject, The Land of Mist, featuring the character Professor Challenger. He wrote many other non-fictional Spiritualist works; perhaps his most famous being The Coming of the Fairies (1922) which reveals Conan Doyle's conviction in the veracity of the five Cottingley Fairies photographs. He reproduced them in the book, together with theories about the nature and existence of fairies and spirits. Initially suspected of being falsified, the photos were decades later determined to be faked (along with admissions from the photographers).   Doyle was friends for a time with Harry Houdini, the American magician who himself became a prominent opponent of the Spiritualist movement in the 1920s following the death of his beloved mother. Although Houdini insisted that Spiritualist mediums employed trickery (and consistently exposed them as frauds), Doyle became convinced that Houdini himself possessed supernatural powers—a view expressed in Doyle's The Edge of the Unknown. Houdini was apparently unable to convince Doyle that his feats were simply illusions, leading to a bitter public falling out between the two. A specific incident is recounted in memoirs by Houdini's friend Bernard M. L. Ernst, in which Houdini performed an impressive trick at his home in the presence of Conan Doyle. Houdini assured Conan Doyle the trick was pure illusion and that he was attempting to prove a point about Doyle not "endorsing phenomena" simply because he had no explanation. According to Ernst, Conan Doyle refused to believe it was a trick.   In 1922, the psychical researcher Harry Price accused the spirit photographer William Hope of fraud. Doyle defended Hope, but further evidence of trickery was obtained from other researchers. Doyle threatened to have Price evicted from the National Laboratory of Psychical Research and claimed if he persisted to write "sewage" about spiritualists, he would meet the same fate as Harry Houdini. Price wrote "Arthur Conan Doyle and his friends abused me for years for exposing Hope." Because of the exposure of Hope and other fraudulent spiritualists, Doyle led a mass resignation of eighty-four members of the Society for Psychical Research, as they believed the Society was opposed to spiritualism.   Doyle and spiritualist William Thomas Stead were duped into believing Julius and Agnes Zancig had genuine psychic powers, both claiming that the Zancigs used telepathy. In 1924 Julius and Agnes Zancig confessed that their mind reading act was a trick and published the secret code and all the details of the trick method they had used, under the title Our Secrets!! in a London newspaper. Doyle praised the psychic phenomena and spirit materializations produced by Eusapia Palladino and Mina Crandon, who were both exposed as frauds.   Doyle's two-volume book The History of Spiritualism was published in 1926. W. Leslie Curnow, a spiritualist, contributed much research to the book. In 1926, Robert John Tillyard wrote a predominantly supportive review of Doyle's book The History of Spiritualism in the journal Nature. This caused controversy, and several critics such as A. A. Campbell Swinton pointed to the evidence of fraud in mediumship and Doyle's non-scientific approach to the subject. In 1927, Doyle spoke in a filmed interview about Sherlock Holmes and spiritualism.   Richard Milner, an American historian of science, has presented a case that Doyle may have been the perpetrator of the Piltdown Man hoax of 1912, creating the counterfeit hominid fossil that fooled the scientific world for over 40 years. Milner says that Doyle had a motive—namely, revenge on the scientific establishment for debunking one of his favourite psychics—and that The Lost World contains several encrypted clues regarding his involvement in the hoax. Samuel Rosenberg's 1974 book Naked is the Best Disguise purports to explain how, throughout his writings, Doyle left open clues that related to hidden and suppressed aspects of his mentality.  Architecture  Façade of Undershaw with Doyle's children, Mary and Kingsley, on the drive   Doyle commissioned a newly-built home from Joseph Henry Ball, an architect friend, in 1895, and played an active part of the design process. He lived in Undershaw which is near Hindhead in Surrey from October 1897 to September 1907. It was a hotel and restaurant from 1924 until 2004, when it was bought by a developer and stood empty while conservationists and Doyle fans fought to preserve it. In 2012, the High Court in London ruled the redevelopment permission be quashed because proper procedure had not been followed, but it is now due to become part of the Stepping Stones school for children with disabilities and additional needs.   Doyle was staying at the Lyndhurst Grand Hotel during March 1912 and made his most ambitious foray into architecture: sketching the original designs for a third storey extension and altering the front facade to the building. Work began later that year and the building as it is today is a near perfect expression of Doyle's plans.   In 1914, on a family trip to the Jasper National Park in Canada, he designed a golf course and ancillary buildings for a hotel. The plans were realised in full, but neither the golf course nor the buildings have survived.   In 1926, Doyle laid the foundation stone for a Spiritualist temple in Camden, London. Of the building's total £600 construction costs, he provided £500.  Honours and awards  Knight Bachelor (1902)  Knight of Grace of the Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of Saint John of Jerusalem (1903)  Queen's South Africa Medal (1901)  Knight of the Order of the Crown of Italy (1895)  Order of the Medjidie – 2nd Class (Ottoman Empire) (1907)  Doyle's grave at Minstead Death  Doyle in 1930, the year of his death, with his son Adrian   Doyle was found clutching his chest in the hall of Windlesham Manor, his house in Crowborough, East Sussex, on 7 July 1930. He died of a heart attack at the age of 71. His last words were directed toward his wife: "You are wonderful." At the time of his death, there was some controversy concerning his burial place, as he was avowedly not a Christian, considering himself a Spiritualist. He was first buried on 11 July 1930 in Windlesham rose garden.   He was later reinterred together with his wife in Minstead churchyard in the New Forest, Hampshire. Carved wooden tablets to his memory and to the memory of his wife, originally from the church at Minstead, are on display as part of a Sherlock Holmes exhibition at Portsmouth Museum. The epitaph on his gravestone in the churchyard reads, in part: "Steel true/Blade straight/Arthur Conan Doyle/Knight/Patriot, Physician, and man of letters".   A statue honours Doyle at Crowborough Cross in Crowborough, where he lived for 23 years. There is a statue of Sherlock Holmes in Picardy Place, Edinburgh, close to the house where Doyle was born.  See also   - Physician writer - William Gillette, a personal friend who performed the most famous stage version of Sherlock Holmes - List of notable Freemasons - Arthur & George (miniseries) - Murder Rooms: Mysteries of the Real Sherlock Holmes   - Biography portal - Children's literature portal - Poetry portal - Sherlock Holmes portal References    1. ^ Stashower says that the compound version of his surname originated from his great-uncle Michael Conan, a distinguished journalist, from whom Arthur and his elder sister, Annette, received the compound surname of "Conan Doyle" (Stashower 20–21). The same source points out that in 1885 he was describing himself on the brass nameplate outside his house, and on his doctoral thesis, as "A. Conan Doyle" (Stashower 70).  2. ^ Redmond, Christopher (2009). Sherlock Holmes Handbook 2nd ed. Dundurn. p. 97. Google Books. Retrieved 11 February 2017.  3. ^ Doyle, Steven; Crowder, David A. (2010). Sherlock Holmes for Dummies. Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons. p. 51.  4. ^ a b "No. 27494". The London Gazette. 11 November 1902. p. 7165.  5. ^ "Scottish Writer Best Known for His Creation of the Detective Sherlock Holmes". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved 30 December 2009.  6. ^ "Sir Arthur Conan Doyle Biography". sherlockholmesonline.org. Archived from the original on 2 February 2011. Retrieved 13 January 2011.  7. ^ The details of the births of Arthur and his siblings are unclear. Some sources say there were nine children, some say ten. It seems three died in childhood. See Owen Dudley Edwards, "Doyle, Sir Arthur Ignatius Conan (1859–1930)", Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, Oxford University Press, 2004; Encyclopædia Britannica; Arthur Conan Doyle: A Life in Letters, Wordsworth Editions, 2007 p. viii; ISBN 978-1-84022-570-9.  8. ^ a b c d e f g h i j k Owen Dudley Edwards, "Doyle, Sir Arthur Ignatius Conan (1859–1930)", Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, Oxford University Press, 2004.  9. ^ Lellenberg, Jon; Stashower, Daniel; Foley, Charles (2007). Arthur Conan Doyle: A Life in Letters. HarperPress. pp. 8–9. ISBN 978-0-00-724759-2.  10. ^ Stashower, pp. 20–21.  11. ^ a b Pascal, Janet (2000). Arthur Conan Doyle: Beyond Baker Street. New York: Oxford University Press. p. 14. ISBN 0195122623.  12. ^ a b O'Brien, James (2013). The Scientific Sherlock Holmes: Cracking the Case with Science and Forensics. New York: Oxford University Press. p. 1. ISBN 9780199794966.  13. ^ Miller, Russell (2010). The Adventures of Arthur Conan Doyle. New York: Random House. ISBN 9781407093086.  14. ^ Golgotha Press (2011). The Life and Times of Arthur Conan Doyle. BookCaps Study Guides. ISBN 978-1-62107-027-6. In time, he would reject the Catholic religion and become an agnostic.  15. ^ Pascal, Janet B. (2000). Arthur Conan Doyle: Beyond Baker Street. Oxford University Press. p. 139.  16. ^ Brown, Yoland (1988). Ruyton XI Towns, Unusual Name, Unusual History. Brewin Books. pp. 92–93. ISBN 0-947731-41-5.  17. ^ McNeill, Colin (6 January 2016). "Mystery solved of how Sherlock Holmes knew so much about poisonous plants". Herald Scotland. Retrieved 9 January 2016.  18. ^ Stashower, Daniel (2000). Teller of Tales: The Life of Arthur Conan Doyle. Penguin Books. pp. 30–31. ISBN 0-8050-5074-4.  19. ^ Doyle, Arthur Conan (20 September 1879). "Arthur Conan Doyle takes it to the limit (1879)". British Medical Journal. BMJ Publishing Group Ltd. Retrieved 2 February 2014. (subscription required)  20. ^ Doyle, Arthur Conan (20 September 1879). "Letters, Notes, and Answers to Correspondents". British Medical Journal. BMJ Publishing Group Ltd. Retrieved 2 February 2014. (subscription required)  21. ^ Robert Mendick (23 May 2015). "Russian supergrass 'poisoned after being tricked into visiting Paris'". Sunday Telegraph. Retrieved 24 May 2015.  22. ^ Conan Doyle, Arthur (Author), Lellenberg, Jon (Editor), Stashower, Daniel (Editor) (2012). Dangerous Work: Diary of an Arctic Adventure. University Of Chicago Press; ISBN 0-226-00905-X; ISBN 978-0-226-00905-6.  23. ^ Capelotti, P.J. (2013). Shipwreck at Cape Flora: The Expeditions of Benjamin Leigh Smith, England's Forgotten Arctic Explorer. New York: University of Calgary. pp. 156–162. ISBN 978-1-55238-712-2. Retrieved 2018-12-29.  24. ^ Available at the Edinburgh Research Archive.  25. ^ Stashower, pp. 52–59.  26. ^ UK Retail Price Index inflation figures are based on data from Clark, Gregory (2017). "The Annual RPI and Average Earnings for Britain, 1209 to Present (New Series)". MeasuringWorth. Retrieved 6 November 2017.  27. ^ Stashower, pp. 55, 58–59.  28. ^   29. ^   30. ^ Higham, Charles (1976). The Adventures of Conan Doyle. New York: W.W. Norton. pp. 86–87.  31. ^ Diniejko, Andrzej. "Sir Arthur Conan Doyle: A Biographical Introduction". The Victorian Web. Retrieved 21 October 2016.  32. ^ Stashower, pp. 114–118.  33. ^ Independent, 7 August 2006;  34. ^ Doyle, Arthur Conan, Memories and Adventures (Reprint), Cambridge University Press, (Cambridge) 2012, p.26.  35. ^ Letter from R L Stevenson to Doyle 5 April 1893 The Letters of Robert Louis Stevenson Volume 2/Chapter XII.  36. ^ Sova, Dawn B. Edgar Allan Poe: A to Z. New York: Checkmark Books, 2001. pp. 162–163. ISBN 0-8160-4161-X.  37. ^ a b c d Carr, John Dickson (1947). The Life of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.  38. ^ City of Westminster green plaques Archived 16 July 2012 at the Wayback Machine.; accessed 22 March 2014.  39. ^ Panek, LeRoy Lad (1987). An Introduction to the Detective Story. Bowling Green, OH: Bowling Green State University Popular Press. p. 78. ISBN 0-87972-377-7. Retrieved 4 January 2012.  40. ^ Stanford Jane, That Irishman: The Life and Times of John O'Connor Power, pp. 30, 124–127, History Press Ireland, May 2011; ISBN 978-1-84588-698-1  41. ^ Saunders, Emma (6 June 2011). "First Conan Doyle novel to be published". BBC. Archived from the original on 7 June 2011. Retrieved 6 June 2011.  42. ^ a b Macdonald Hastings, Mary Celeste, (1971); ISBN 0-7181-1024-2  43. ^ "Mary Celeste – definition of Mary Celeste in English from the Oxford dictionary".  44. ^ "Jane Annie — J.M. Barrie and Doyle's Libretto Rather Puzzles London", The New York Times, 28 May 1893, p. 13  45. ^ Juson, Dave; Bull, David (2001). Full-Time at The Dell. Hagiology Publishing. p. 21. ISBN 0-9534474-2-1.  46. ^ "Arthur Conan Doyle". ESPN Cricinfo. Retrieved 17 January 2018.  47. ^ "What is the connection between Peter Pan, Sherlock Holmes, Winnie the Pooh and the noble sport of cricket?. BBC. Retrieved 25 November 2014  48. ^ "London County v Marylebone Cricket Club at Crystal Palace Park, 23–25 Aug 1900". Static.cricinfo.com. Retrieved 2 March 2010.  49. ^ a b Rawson, Mitchell (13 March 1961). "A Case for Sherlock". Sports Illustrated Vault. Retrieved 23 July 2018.  50. ^ Arthur Conan Doyle. "Memories and Adventures", p. 222. Oxford University Press, 2012; ISBN 1441719288.  51. ^ a b Leeman, Sue, "Sherlock Holmes fans hope to save Doyle's house from developers", Associated Press, 28 July 2006.  52. ^ Janet B. Pascal (2000). "Arthur Conan Doyle:Beyond Baker Street: Beyond Baker Street". p. 95. Oxford University Press; ISBN 0195122623.  53. ^ "No. 35171". The London Gazette. 23 May 1941. p. 2977.  54. ^ "Obituary: Air Commandant Dame Jean Conan Doyle". The Independent; retrieved 6 November 2012  55. ^ Itzkoff, Dave (2010-01-18). "Heirs to Sherlock Holmes Face Web of Ownership Issues". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved 2017-07-18.  56. ^ "Who owns Sherlock Holmes?". The Telegraph. Retrieved 2017-07-18.  57. ^ Miller, Russell. The Adventures of Arthur Conan Doyle. New York: Thomas Dunne Books, 2008. pp. 211–217; ISBN 0-312-37897-1.  58. ^ "No. 27453". The London Gazette. 11 July 1902. p. 4444.  59. ^ "Arthur Conan Doyle: 19 things you didn't know". The Telegraph. Retrieved 25 November 2014  60. ^ "No. 27550". The London Gazette. 8 May 1903. p. 2921.  61. ^ Spiring, Paul. "B. Fletcher Robinson & 'The Lost World'". Bfronline.biz. Archived from the original on 3 October 2011. Retrieved 2 October 2011.  62. ^ Wijesinha, Rajiva (2013). "Twentieth Century Classics: Reflections on Writers and Their Times". Cambridge University Press.  63. ^ International Commentary on Evidence, Volume 4, Issue 2 2006 Article 3, Boxes in Boxes: Julian Bardes, Conan Doyle, Sherlock Holmes and the Edalji Case, D. Michael Risinger  64. ^ International Commentary on Evidence, Volume 4, Issue 2 2006 Article 3, Boxes in Boxes: Julian Barnes, Conan Doyle, Sherlock Holmes and the Edalji Case, D. Michael Risinger  65. ^ Roughead, William (1941). "Oscar Slater". In Hodge, Harry. Famous Trials. 1. Penguin Books. p. 108.  66. ^ Beresiner, Yasha (2007). "Arthur Conan Doyle, Spiritualist and Freemason". Masonic papers. PIETRE-STONES REVIEW OF FREEMASONRY. Retrieved 13 March 2015.  67. ^ Wingett, Matt (2016). Conan Doyle and the Mysterious World of Light, 1887–1920. Life Is Amazing. pp. 19–32. ISBN 978-0-9-5724135-0.  68. ^ a b Wingett, Matt (2016). Conan Doyle and the Mysterious World of Light, 1887–1920. Life Is Amazing. pp. 32–36. ISBN 978-0-9-5724135-0.  69. ^ Wingett, Matt (2016). Conan Doyle and the Mysterious World of Light, 1887–1920. Life Is Amazing. pp. 43–44. ISBN 978-0-9-5724135-0.  70. ^ Wingett, Matt (2016). Conan Doyle and the Mysterious World of Light, 1887–1920. Life Is Amazing. pp. 44–48. ISBN 978-0-9-5724135-0.  71. ^ Wingett, Matt (2016). Conan Doyle and the Mysterious World of Light, 1887–1920. Life Is Amazing. pp. 44–48. ISBN 978-0-9-5724135-0.  72. ^ Price, Leslie (2010). "Did Conan Doyle Go Too Far?". Psychic News (4037).  73. ^ Ian Topham (31 October 2010). "The Ghost Club – A History by Peter Underwood". Mysteriousbritain.co.uk. Archived from the original on 3 July 2013. Retrieved 28 May 2013.  74. ^ Baker, Robert A. (1996). Hidden Memories: Voices and Visions from Within. Prometheus Books. p. 234. ISBN 978-1-57392-094-0  75. ^ Christopher, Milbourne. (1996). The Illustrated History of Magic. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 264. ISBN 978-0-435-07016-8  76. ^ Wingett, Matt (2016). Conan Doyle and the Mysterious World of Light, 1887–1920. Life Is Amazing. pp. 160–161. ISBN 978-0-9-5724135-0.  77. ^ Joseph McCabe. (1920). Is Spiritualism Based On Fraud? The Evidence Given By Sir A. C. Doyle and Others Drastically Examined. London Watts & Co.  78. ^ Dearden, Harold. (1975 edition). Devilish But True: The Doctor Looks at Spiritualism. EP Publishing Limited. pp. 70–72. ISBN 0-7158-1041-3  79. ^ "The Coming of the Fairies". British Library catalogue. British Library. Retrieved 12 June 2013.  80. ^ Massimo Polidoro. (2003). Secrets of the Psychics: Investigating Paranormal Claims. Prometheus Books. pp. 120–124. ISBN 1-59102-086-7  81. ^ Polidoro, Massimo. "Houdini's Impossible Demonstration". Skeptical Inquirer. The Committee for Skeptical Inquiry. Archived from the original on 12 April 2017. Retrieved 19 November 2017.  82. ^ Polidoro, Massimo. "Houdini's Impossible Demonstration". Skeptical Inquirer. The Committee For Skeptical Inquiry. http://www.csicop.org/SI/show/houdinirsquos_impossible_demonstration/ (August 2006).  83. ^ Massimo Polidoro (2011). "Photos of Ghosts: The Burden of Believing the Unbelievable by Massimo Polidoro". Csicop.org. Retrieved 5 December 2013.  84. ^ William Kalush, Larry Ratso Sloman. (2006). The Secret Life of Houdini: The Making of America's First Superhero. Atria Books. pp. 419–420. ISBN 978-0-7432-7208-7  85. ^ Massimo Polidoro. (2001). Final Séance: The Strange Friendship Between Houdini and Conan Doyle. Prometheus Books. p. 67. ISBN 978-1-57392-896-0  86. ^ G. K. Nelson. (2013). Spiritualism and Society. Routledge. p. 159; ISBN 978-0-415-71462-4  87. ^ John Booth. (1986). Psychic Paradoxes. Prometheus Books. p. 8; ISBN 978-0-87975-358-0  88. ^ William Kalush, Larry Ratso Sloman. (2006). The Secret Life of Houdini: The Making of America's First Superhero. Atria Books. ISBN 978-0-7432-7208-7  89. ^ Hall, Trevor H. (1978). Sherlock Holmes and his Creator. Duckworth. p. 121  90. ^ Stashower, Daniel (1999). Teller of Tales: The Life of Arthur Conan Doyle. Henry Holt & Company. "A Spiritualist researcher named Leslie Curnow contributed a great deal of material and wrote some of the chapters, which Conan Doyle freely admits in the book's preface."  91. ^ Tillyard, Robert John (1926). "The History of Spiritualism". Nature. 118: 147–149. doi:10.1038/118147a0.  92. ^ Swinton, A. A. Campbell (1926). "Science and Psychical Research" (PDF). Nature. 118: 299–300. doi:10.1038/118299a0.  93. ^ Donkin, Bryan (1926). "Science and Psychical Research" (PDF). Nature. 118: 480. doi:10.1038/118480a0.  94. ^ Donkin, Bryan (1926). "Science and Psychical Research" (PDF). Nature. 118: 658–659. doi:10.1038/118658a0.  95. ^ Arthur Conan Doyle Interviewed on Sherlock Holmes and Spirituality. 16 April 2009 – via YouTube.  96. ^ ""Piltdown Man: Britain's Greatest Hoax" 17 February 2011 BBC". Retrieved 5 October 2014.  97. ^ ""Piltdown Man: British archaeology's greatest hoax" The Guardian 5 February 2012". the Guardian. Retrieved 5 October 2014.  98. ^ Samuel Rosenberg. (1974). Naked is the Best Disguise: The Death and Resurrection of Sherlock Holmes. Bobbs-Merrill. ISBN 0-14-004030-7  99. ^ Cooke, Simon, 2013, Introduction: Life and Controversy, "Charles Altamont Doyle," The Victorian Web  100. ^ Historic England, 1977 (amended 2014), Reasons for Designation – Architectural Interest, "Undershaw List Entry," 1244471, National Heritage List for England (NHLE).  101. ^ Duncan, Alistair (2011). An Entirely New Country: Arthur Conan Doyle, Undershaw and the Resurrection of Sherlock Holmes. MX Publishing. ISBN 978-1-908218-19-3.  102. ^ "Sir Arthur Conan Doyle house development appeal upheld". BBC News. 12 November 2012. Retrieved 12 November 2012.  103. ^ Griffith, Carolyn. "Campaigner says hotel's writer link should secure landmark building" Lymington Times, Sep 15th, 2017  104. ^ Glasshayes House: the 1912 extension of The Lyndhurst Grand Hotel, The Arthur Conan Doyle Encyclopedia, 2017  105. ^ The Golfball Factory, accessed September 2017, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle – Golf Course Architect  106. ^ http://www.hamhigh.co.uk/property/blur-guitarist-leads-fight-to-save-camden-road-spiritualist-temple-1-5152950  107. ^ Stashower, p. 439.  108. ^ Limited, Alamy. "Stock Photo – Wooden headstone of Sir Arthur Conan-Doyle at a special display in the Town's museum. Portsmouth, Hampshire, UK". Alamy. Retrieved 15 March 2016.  109. ^ "City Museums". www.portsmouthcitymuseums.co.uk. Retrieved 15 March 2016.  110. ^ Johnson, Roy (1992). "Studying Fiction: A Guide and Study Programme", p. 15. Manchester University Press; ISBN 0719033977.  111. ^ "Arthur Conan Doyle (1859–1930), author database), librarything.com; retrieved 17 March 2012". Retrieved 5 October 2014.  112. ^ "Sherlock Holmes statue reinstated in Edinburgh after tram works", bbc.co.uk; retrieved 6 November 2012.  Further reading   - Martin Booth (2000). The Doctor and the Detective: A Biography of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Minotaur Books. ISBN 0-312-24251-4 - John Dickson Carr (2003 edition, originally published in 1949). The Life of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Carroll and Graf Publishers. - Arthur Conan Doyle, Joseph McCabe (1920). Debate on Spiritualism: Between Arthur Conan Doyle and Joseph McCabe. The Appeal's Pocket Series. - Bernard M. L. Ernst, Hereward Carrington (1932). Houdini and Conan Doyle: The Story of a Strange Friendship. Albert and Charles Boni, Inc. - Margalit Fox (2018). Conan Doyle for the Defense. Random House. - Kelvin Jones (1989). Conan Doyle and the Spirits: The Spiritualist Career of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Aquarian Press. - Jon Lellenberg, Daniel Stashower, Charles Foley (2007). Arthur Conan Doyle: A Life in Letters. HarperPress. ISBN 978-0-00-724759-2 - Andrew Lycett (2008). The Man Who Created Sherlock Holmes: The Life and Times of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Free Press. ISBN 0-7432-7523-3 - Russell Miller (2008). The Adventures of Arthur Conan Doyle: A Biography. Thomas Dunne Books. - Pierre Nordon (1967). Conan Doyle: A Biography. Holt, Rinehart and Winston. - Ronald Pearsall (1977). Conan Doyle: A Biographical Solution. Littlehampton Book Services Ltd. - Massimo Polidoro (2001). Final Séance: The Strange Friendship Between Houdini and Conan Doyle. Prometheus Books. ISBN 978-1-57392-896-0 - Daniel Stashower (2000). Teller of Tales: The Life of Arthur Conan Doyle. Penguin Books. ISBN 0-8050-5074-4 External links  Arthur Conan Doyleat Wikipedia's sister projects    - Media from Wikimedia Commons  - Quotations from Wikiquote  - Texts from Wikisource  - Data from Wikidata     - Wikilivres has original media or text related to this article: Arthur Conan Doyle (in the public domain in South Korea)   - Arthur Conan Doyle Collection at Toronto Public Library. - Arthur Conan Doyle at Curlie - Works by Arthur Conan Doyle at Project Gutenberg - Works by Arthur Conan Doyle at Faded Page (Canada) - Works by Arthur Conan Doyle at Project Gutenberg Australia - Works by or about Arthur Conan Doyle at Internet Archive - Works by Arthur Conan Doyle at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks)  - 1930 audio recording of Conan Doyle speaking - Arthur Conan Doyle Online Exhibition - Conan Doyle in Birmingham - The Arthur Conan Doyle Society - "Archival material relating to Arthur Conan Doyle". UK National Archives.  - Online works available from the University of Adelaide Library - Works of Arthur Conan Doyle available as freely downloadable eBooks at University of Virginia EText Center - Arthur Conan Doyle at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database - The short film Arthur Conan Doyle (1927) (Fox newsreel interview) is available for free download at the Internet Archive - C. Frederick Kittle's Collection of Doyleana at the Newberry Library - DOYLE, Sir Arthur Conan, Knt.— Cr. 1902, The county families of the United Kingdom or Royal manual of the titled and untitled aristocracy of England, Wales, Scotland and Ireland, (Volume ed.59, yr.1919) (page 109 of 415) by Edward Walford - Newspaper clippings about Arthur Conan Doyle in the 20th Century Press Archives of the German National Library of Economics (ZBW)  Wontner series   - The Sleeping Cardinal (1931) - The Missing Rembrandt (1932, lost) - The Sign of Four (1932) - The Triumph of Sherlock Holmes (1935) - Silver Blaze (1937) Rathbone–Bruce   series   - The Hound of the Baskervilles (1939) - The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes (1939) - Voice of Terror (1942) - Secret Weapon (1942) - Sherlock Holmes in Washington (1943) - Sherlock Holmes Faces Death (1943) - The Spider Woman (1944) - The Scarlet Claw (1944) - The Pearl of Death (1944) - The House of Fear (1945) - The Woman in Green (1945) - Pursuit to Algiers (1945) - Terror by Night (1946) - Dressed to Kill (1946) Other Adaptations   - The Speckled Band (1931) - The Hound of the Baskervilles (1932) - A Study in Scarlet (1933) - The Hound of the Baskervilles (1937) Comedies,   pastiches,   and parodies   - The Mystery of the Leaping Fish (1916) - The Limejuice Mystery or Who Spat in Grandfather's Porridge? (1930) - Lelíček ve službách Sherlocka Holmese (1932) - The Man Who Was Sherlock Holmes (1937) - Deduce, You Say! (1956) - A Study in Terror (1965) - The Private Life of Sherlock Holmes (1970) - They Might Be Giants (1971) - Doctor Watson and the Darkwater Hall Mystery (1974) - The Adventure of Sherlock Holmes' Smarter Brother (1975) - The Return of the World's Greatest Detective (1976) - Sherlock Pink (1976) - The Seven-Per-Cent Solution (1976) - The Strange Case of the End of Civilization as We Know It (1977) - The Hound of the Baskervilles (1978) - The Case of Marcel Duchamp (1984) - Young Sherlock Holmes (1985) - The Great Mouse Detective (1986) - Without a Clue (1988) - The Adventures of Shirley Holmes (1997) - Zero Effect (1998) - A Samba for Sherlock (2001) - Sheerluck Holmes and the Golden Ruler (2006) - Aria the Scarlet Ammo (2008) - Tantei Opera Milky Holmes (2009) - Sherlock Holmes (2010) - Tom and Jerry Meet Sherlock Holmes (2010) - Holmes & Watson. Madrid Days (2012) - Mr. Holmes (2015) - The Empire of Corpses (2015) - Sherlock Gnomes (2018) - Holmes & Watson (2018) Television   series   - Sherlock Holmes (1951) - Sherlock Holmes (1954) - Sherlock Holmes (1965–68) - Sherlock Holmes (1967–68) - Sherlock Holmes (1968) - Sherlock Holmes and Doctor Watson (1979–80) - Young Sherlock: The Mystery of the Manor House (1982) - The Baker Street Boys (1983) - Sherlock Hound (1984–85) - Sherlock Holmes (1984–94) episodes - episodes - Sherlock Holmes in the 22nd Century (1999–2001) - Sherlock (2010–present) - Elementary (2012–present) - Sherlock Holmes (2013) - Sherlock Holmes (2014–15) - Miss Sherlock (2018) other articles   - List of actors who have played Sherlock Holmes - List of actors who have played Dr. Watson - List of actors who have played Inspector Lestrade - List of actresses who have played Irene Adler - List of actors who have played Mycroft Holmes - List of actors who have played Professor Moriarty - Minor Sherlock Holmes characters
Dr. Amit Ray (born 12 August 1960) is an Indian author, and spiritual master. He is known to the world for his teachings on meditation, yoga, peace and compassion. He is best known for his Om meditation and integrated yoga and vipassana meditation techniques. He is author of several books on meditation and other spiritual topics. He teaches peace, love and compassion for the transformation of human consciousness.
Dr. Brené Brown (born November 18, 1965) is a research professor at the University of Houston where she holds the Huffington Foundation – Brené Brown Endowed Chair at The Graduate College of Social Work.   She has spent the past two decades studying courage, vulnerability, shame, and empathy and is the author of five #1 New York Times bestsellers: The Gifts of Imperfection, Daring Greatly, Rising Strong, Braving the Wilderness, and her latest book, Dare to Lead, which is the culmination of a seven-year study on courage and leadership.   Brené’s TED talk – The Power of Vulnerability – is one of the top five most viewed TED talks in the world with over 35 million views.   Brené lives in Houston, Texas, with her husband, Steve, and their children, Ellen and Charlie.
Dr Karen Arnold (born 1964) is a former company director who has been awarded an honorary doctorate from Bournemouth University for her services to charity and education, and also the Queen's Award for Enterprise Promotion. Since 2015 she has worked in military transition, supporting those leaving the military. She was formerly the chief executive of The Enterprise and Skills Company Limited, based in Wimborne Minster, Dorset. The "Yes Chef" programme was set up by Karen Arnold to support and inspire the young generation of chefs. She continues to support this programme.  Life   Arnold grew up in Port Isaac, Cornwall, and studied economics and accountancy. Her Enterprise and Skills Company, founded together with Dr John Knowles, is devoted to promoting entrepreneurship among teenagers. This includes organising competitions in which teenagers briefly set up and run their own businesses.   She has been quoted as saying: "The new buzz word is employability and it is never too soon to encourage students to understand that as well as achieving their academic grades, they need to have a broad portfolio of employability skills which include working together, problem solving and other key skills.”   Arnold has been a director of the Dorset Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and a governor of Weymouth College and of The Bishop of Winchester Academy.  Awards   In 2009 she received the Queen's Award for Enterprise Promotion, and in 2014 she was awarded an Honorary Doctorate by Bournemouth University for services to education and the charitable sector.  References    1. ^ company check ltd (26 November 2015). "MS KAREN ARNOLD director information. Free director information". Company Check. Retrieved 26 November 2015.  2. ^ Will Frampton (13 October 2014). "Students get down to business for Enterprise Challenge". Daily Echo.  3. ^ Tim Saunders, Startups shining bright, Dorset Business, Friday 31 July 2009. Accessed 26 November 2015.  4. ^ Will Frampton, Students get down to business for Enterprise Challenge, Bournemouth Daily Echo, Monday, 13 October 2014. Accessed 26 November 2015.  5. ^ Plymouth students create smoothies and perfume in apprentice-style challenge, Plymouth Herald, December 13, 2013. Accessed 26 November 2015.  6. ^ Citation for doctorate, Bournemouth University. Accessed 26 November 2015.  7. ^ Tim Saunders (4 May 2009). "Karen's Queen's Award honour". Bournemouth Echo. Retrieved 22 November 2015.  8. ^ a b "It's a doctorate for Karen" (12 November 2014). Cornish Guardian . Retrieved 22 November 2015.  9. ^ "University tourism and business graduates celebrate" (7 November 2014). Bournemouth Daily Echo. Retrieved 22 November 2015.      This United Kingdom business–related biographical article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
Durante degli Alighieri (Italian: [duˈrante deʎʎ aliˈɡjɛːri]; Latin: Dantes), commonly known by his short name Dante Alighieri or simply as Dante (Italian: [ˈdante]; English: /ˈdɑːnteɪ/, UK also /ˈdænti, -teɪ/; c. 1265 – 1321), was a major Italian poet of the Late Middle Ages. His Divine Comedy, originally called Comedìa (modern Italian: Commedia) and later christened Divina by Giovanni Boccaccio, is widely considered the most important poem of the Middle Ages and the greatest literary work in the Italian language.   In the late Middle Ages, most poetry was written in Latin, accessible only to the most educated readers. In De vulgari eloquentia (On Eloquence in the Vernacular), however, Dante defended the use of the vernacular in literature. He would even write in the Tuscan dialect for works such as The New Life (1295) and the Divine Comedy; this highly unorthodox choice set a precedent that important later Italian writers such as Petrarch and Boccaccio would follow.   Dante was instrumental in establishing the literature of Italy, and his depictions of Hell, Purgatory and Heaven provided inspiration for the larger body of Western art. He is cited as an influence on John Milton, Geoffrey Chaucer and Alfred Tennyson, among many others. In addition, the first use of the interlocking three-line rhyme scheme, or the terza rima, is attributed to him. In Italy, he is often referred to as il Sommo Poeta ("the Supreme Poet") and il Poeta; he, Petrarch, and Boccaccio are also called "the three fountains" or "the three crowns".
Eckhart Tolle (/ˈɛkɑːrt ˈtɒlə/ EK-art TOL-ə; German pronunciation: [ˈɛkhaʁt ˈtɔlə], born Ulrich Leonard Tölle, February 16, 1948) is a spiritual teacher. He is a German-born resident of Canada best known as the author of The Power of Now and A New Earth: Awakening to Your Life's Purpose. In 2008, The New York Times called Tolle "the most popular spiritual author in the United States". In 2011, he was listed by Watkins Review as the most spiritually influential person in the world. Tolle is not identified with any particular religion, but he has been influenced by a wide range of spiritual works.   Tolle said he was depressed for much of his life until age 29, when he underwent an "inner transformation". He then spent several years wandering "in a state of deep bliss" before becoming a spiritual teacher. He moved to Vancouver, British Columbia in 1995 and currently divides his time between Canada and California. He began writing his first book, The Power of Now, in 1997 and it reached The New York Times Best Seller list in 2000.   The Power of Now and A New Earth sold an estimated three million and five million copies respectively in North America by 2009. In 2008, approximately 35 million people participated in a series of 10 live webinars with Tolle and television talk show host Oprah Winfrey. In 2016, Tolle was named in Oprah's SuperSoul 100 list of visionaries and influential leaders.
Eckhart von Hochheim OP (c. 1260 – c. 1328), commonly known as Meister Eckhart or Eckehart, was a German theologian, philosopher and mystic, born near Gotha, in the Landgraviate of Thuringia (now central Germany) in the Holy Roman Empire.   Eckhart came into prominence during the Avignon Papacy, at a time of increased tensions between monastic orders, diocesan clergy, the Franciscan Order, and Eckhart's Dominican Order of Preachers. In later life, he was accused of heresy and brought up before the local Franciscan-led Inquisition, and tried as a heretic by Pope John XXII. He seems to have died before his verdict was received.[citation needed]   He was well known for his work with pious lay groups such as the Friends of God and was succeeded by his more circumspect disciples John Tauler and Henry Suso.[citation needed] Since the 19th century, he has received renewed attention. He has acquired a status as a great mystic within contemporary popular spirituality, as well as considerable interest from scholars situating him within the medieval scholastic and philosophical tradition.
Edgar Allan Poe (/poʊ/; born Edgar Poe; January 19, 1809 – October 7, 1849) was an American writer, editor, and literary critic. Poe is best known for his poetry and short stories, particularly his tales of mystery and the macabre. He is widely regarded as a central figure of Romanticism in the United States and American literature as a whole, and he was one of the country's earliest practitioners of the short story. Poe is generally considered the inventor of the detective fiction genre and is further credited with contributing to what was then the emerging genre of science fiction. He was the first well-known American writer to try to earn a living through writing alone, resulting in a financially difficult life and career.   Poe was born in Boston, the second child of two actors, David and Elizabeth "Eliza" Arnold Hopkins Poe. David Poe abandoned the family in 1810, and Eliza Poe died the following year. Thus orphaned, the child was taken in by John and Frances Allan of Richmond, Virginia. They never formally adopted him, but Poe was with them well into young adulthood. Tension developed later as John Allan and Poe repeatedly clashed over debts, including those incurred by gambling, and the cost of secondary education for Poe. He attended the University of Virginia but left after a year due to lack of money. Poe quarreled with Allan over the funds for his education and enlisted in the Army in 1827 under an assumed name. It was at this time that his publishing career began, albeit humbly, with the anonymous collection Tamerlane and Other Poems (1827), credited only to "a Bostonian". With the death of Frances Allan in 1829, Poe and Allan reached a temporary rapprochement. However, Poe later failed as an officer cadet at West Point, declaring a firm wish to be a poet and writer, and he ultimately parted ways with John Allan.   Poe switched his focus to prose and spent the next several years working for literary journals and periodicals, becoming known for his own style of literary criticism. His work forced him to move among several cities, including Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York City. In Richmond in 1836, he married Virginia Clemm, his 13-year-old cousin. In January 1845, Poe published his poem "The Raven" to instant success. His wife died of tuberculosis two years after its publication. For years, he had been planning to produce his own journal The Penn (later renamed The Stylus), though he died before it could be produced. Poe died in Baltimore on October 7, 1849, at age 40; the cause of his death is unknown and has been variously attributed to alcohol, "brain congestion", cholera, drugs, heart disease, rabies, suicide, tuberculosis, and other agents.   Poe and his works influenced literature in the United States and around the world, as well as in specialized fields such as cosmology and cryptography. Poe and his work appear throughout popular culture in literature, music, films, and television. A number of his homes are dedicated museums today. The Mystery Writers of America present an annual award known as the Edgar Award for distinguished work in the mystery genre.
Edith Mary Pargeter, OBE, BEM (28 September 1913 – 14 October 1995), also known by her nom de plume Ellis Peters, was an English author of works in many categories, especially history and historical fiction, and was also honoured for her translations of Czech classics; she is probably best known for her murder mysteries, both historical and modern. She is well known for her medieval-detective series The Cadfael Chronicles.
Edith Wharton (/ˈhwɔːrtən/; born Edith Newbold Jones; January 24, 1862 – August 11, 1937) was an American novelist, short story writer, playwright, and designer. Wharton drew upon her insider's knowledge of the upper class New York "aristocracy" to realistically portray the lives and morals of the Gilded Age. She was the first woman to win the Pulitzer Prize for Literature in 1921. She was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame in 1996.
Edmund Burke (/ˈbɜːrk/; 12 January [NS] 1729 – 9 July 1797) was an  Irish statesman born in Dublin, as well as an author, orator, political theorist and philosopher, who after moving to London in 1750 served as a member of parliament (MP) between 1766 and 1794 in the House of Commons with the Whig Party.   Burke was a proponent of underpinning virtues with manners in society and of the importance of religious institutions for the moral stability and good of the state.[page needed] These views were expressed in his A Vindication of Natural Society. Burke criticized British treatment of the American colonies, including through its taxation policies. He also supported the rights of the colonists to resist metropolitan authority, though he opposed the attempt to achieve independence. Burke is remembered for his support for Catholic emancipation, the impeachment of Warren Hastings from the East India Company and for his staunch opposition to the French Revolution. In his Reflections on the Revolution in France, Burke asserted that the revolution was destroying the fabric of good society and traditional institutions of state and society, and condemned the persecution of the Catholic Church that resulted from it. This led to his becoming the leading figure within the conservative faction of the Whig Party, which he dubbed the "Old Whigs", as opposed to the pro-French Revolution "New Whigs", led by Charles James Fox.   In the nineteenth century, Burke was praised by both conservatives and liberals. Subsequently, in the twentieth century he became widely regarded as the philosophical founder of modern conservatism.
Edmund WhiteWhite in his home in New York, October 2007BornEdmund Valentine White III  (1940-01-16) January 16, 1940 (age 78) Cincinnati, Ohio, United StatesOccupationNovelist, short stories, non-fictionNationalityAmericanPeriod1970s–presentNotable worksThe Joy of Gay Sex, A Boy's Own Story, The Beautiful Room Is Empty, The Farewell SymphonySpouseMichael Carroll  Edmund Valentine White III (born January 13, 1940) is an American novelist, memoirist, and an essayist on literary and social topics. Much of his writing is on the theme of same-sex love. His books include The Joy of Gay Sex (1977) (written with Charles Silverstein), his trio of autobiographic novels, A Boy's Own Story (1982), The Beautiful Room Is Empty (1988) and The Farewell Symphony (1997), and his biography of Jean Genet.
Edna St. Vincent Millay (February 22, 1892 – October 19, 1950) was an American poet and playwright. She received the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry in 1923, the third woman to win the award for poetry, and was also known for her feminist activism. She used the pseudonym Nancy Boyd for her prose work. The poet Richard Wilbur asserted, "She wrote some of the best sonnets of the century."
Ehsan Sehgal is a Pakistani-Dutch poet and writer. He moved to the Netherlands in 1978 to avoid persecution during the General Zia era in Pakistan, and has lived in the Netherlands since.
Elaine Pagels, née Hiesey (born February 13, 1943), is an American religious historian who writes on the Gnostic Gospels. She is the Harrington Spear Paine Professor of Religion at Princeton University.   Pagels has conducted extensive research into Early Christianity and Gnosticism. Her best-selling book The Gnostic Gospels (1979) examines the divisions in the early Christian church, and the way that women have been viewed throughout Jewish history and Christian history. Modern Library named it as one of the 100 best books of the twentieth century.
Elaine White (born 9 July 1944) is a New Zealand former cricketer. She played in three Test matches in 1972.  References    1. ^ "Elaine White". ESPN Cricinfo. Retrieved 21 April 2014.  2. ^ "Elaine White". Cricket Archive. Retrieved 8 June 2016.   This biographical article related to a New Zealand cricket person born in the 1940s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
Elena Ferrante (Italian pronunciation: [ˌɛːlena ferˈrante]) is a pseudonymous Italian novelist, who has said that she was born in 1943 in Naples.[citation needed] Ferrante's books, originally published in Italian, have been translated into many languages. Her four-book series of Neapolitan Novels are among her best known works.   Time magazine called Ferrante one of the 100 most influential people in 2016.
Eliezer Wiesel (/ˈɛli ˌviːˈzɛl/, Hebrew: אֱלִיעֶזֶר וִיזֶל‎ ʾĔlîʿezer Vîzel; September 30, 1928 – July 2, 2016) was a Romanian-born American Jewish writer, professor, political activist, Nobel Laureate, and Holocaust survivor. He authored 57 books, written mostly in French and English, including Night, a work based on his experiences as a prisoner in the Auschwitz and Buchenwald concentration camps.   Along with writing, he was a professor of the humanities at Boston University, which created the Elie Wiesel Center for Jewish Studies in his honor. He was involved with Jewish causes and helped establish the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D. C. In his political activities, he also campaigned for victims of oppression in places like South Africa, Nicaragua, Kosovo, and Sudan. He publicly condemned the 1915 Armenian Genocide, and remained a strong defender of human rights during his lifetime. He was described as "the most important Jew in America" by the Los Angeles Times.   Wiesel was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1986, at which time the Norwegian Nobel Committee called him a "messenger to mankind", stating that through his struggle to come to terms with "his own personal experience of total humiliation and of the utter contempt for humanity shown in Hitler's death camps", as well as his "practical work in the cause of peace", Wiesel had delivered a message "of peace, atonement, and human dignity" to humanity. He was a founding board member of the New York Human Rights Foundation and remained active throughout his life.
Elif Shafak, in Turkish Elif Şafak (Turkish: [eˈlif ʃaˈfak]; born 25 October 1971), is a Turkish-British novelist, essayist, academic, public speaker and women's rights activist. In English she publishes under the anglicized spelling of her pen-name Elif Shafak.   Shafak has taught at different universities around the world, most recently at St Anne's College of Oxford University. She currently holds the Weidenfeld Visiting Professorship for 2017-2018.   Shafak writes in both Turkish and English, and has published 16 books, 10 of which are novels, including The Bastard of Istanbul, The Forty Rules of Love and Three Daughters of Eve. Her books have been translated into 49 languages and she has been awarded the prestigious Chevalier de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres.   She is an activist on women's rights, minority rights and freedom of speech. She also writes and speaks about a range of issues including global and cultural politics, the future of Europe, Turkey and the Middle East, democracy and pluralism. She is a twice TED Global speaker, a member of the Weforum Global Agenda Council on Creative Economy in Davos and a founding member of ECFR (European Council on Foreign Relations). In 2017 she was chosen by Politico among the 12 people that will "give you a much needed lift of the heart."
Elisabeth Elliot (née Howard; December 21, 1926 – June 15, 2015) was a Christian author and speaker. Her first husband, Jim Elliot, was killed in 1956 while attempting to make missionary contact with the Auca (now known as Huaorani; also rendered as Waorani or Waodani) of eastern Ecuador. She later spent two years as a missionary to the tribe members who killed her husband. Returning to the United States after many years in South America, she became widely known as the author of over twenty books and as a speaker. Elliot toured the country, sharing her knowledge and experience, well into her seventies.  Biography   Elisabeth Elliot was born Elisabeth Howard in Brussels, Belgium on December 21, 1926, and her family included her missionary parents, four brothers, and one sister. Elisabeth's brothers, Thomas Howard and David Howard, are also authors.[citation needed]   Her family moved to the Germantown neighborhood of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in the U.S. when she was a few months old. In addition to Philadelphia, she lived in Franconia, New Hampshire and Moorestown, New Jersey. She studied Classical Greek at Wheaton College, believing that it was the best tool to help her with the calling of ultimately translating the New Testament of the Bible into an unknown language. It was at Wheaton where she met Jim Elliot. Before their marriage, Elisabeth took a post-graduate year of specialized studies at Prairie Bible Institute in Alberta, Canada, where a campus prayer chapel was later named in her honor. Jim Elliot and Elisabeth Howard went individually to Ecuador to work with the Quichua (or Quechua) Indians; the two married in 1953 in the city of Quito, Ecuador. In January 1956, her husband Jim was speared to death along with four of his missionary friends while attempting to contact the Huaorani tribe. Their daughter, Valerie (born February 27, 1955), was 10 months old when her father was killed. Elisabeth continued her work with the Quechua for two more years.[citation needed]   Two Huaorani women living among the Quichua, including one named Dayuma, taught the Huao language to Mrs. Elliot and fellow missionary Rachel Saint. When Dayuma returned to the Huaorani, she created an opening for contact by the missionaries. In October 1958, Mrs. Elliot went to live with the Huaorani with her three-year-old daughter Valerie and with Rachel Saint.[citation needed]   The Auca/Huaorani gave Elisabeth the tribal name Gikari, Huao for "Woodpecker." She later returned to the Quichua and worked with them until 1963, when she and Valerie returned to the US (Franconia, New Hampshire).[citation needed]   In 1969, Elisabeth married Addison Leitch, professor of theology at Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary in South Hamilton, Massachusetts. Leitch died in 1973. In the fall of 1974, she became an adjunct professor on the faculty of Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary and for several years taught a popular course entitled "Christian Expression." In 1977, she married Lars Gren, a hospital chaplain. The Grens later worked and traveled together.[citation needed]   In the mid-1970s, she served as one of the stylistic consultants for the committee of the New International Version of the Bible (NIV). She appears on the NIV's list of contributors.   In 1981, Mrs. Gren was appointed writer-in-residence at Gordon College in Wenham, MA.[citation needed]   From 1988 to 2001, Elisabeth could be heard on a daily radio program, Gateway to Joy, produced by the Good News Broadcasting Association of Lincoln, Nebraska. She almost always opened the program with the phrase, "'You are loved with an everlasting love,' – that's what the Bible says – 'and underneath are the everlasting arms.' This is your friend, Elisabeth Elliot..." Today re-runs of the program may be heard over the Bible Broadcasting Network.   In her later years, she and her husband stopped traveling, but continued to keep in touch with the public through mail and their website.[citation needed]   Elisabeth Elliot died in Magnolia, Massachusetts on June 15, 2015, at the age of 88. Shortly after her death, Steve Saint, the son of one of the other missionaries who were killed alongside Elliot's first husband, Jim, posted on Facebook about her final victory over "the loss of her mind to dementia" and "her ten year battle with the disease which robbed her of her greatest gift." She was interred at Hamilton Cemetery in Hamilton, Massachusetts. She was survived by her third husband, Lars Gren, a daughter, Valerie Elliot Shepard and husband Walter, and eight grandchildren.  References    1. ^ Shellnutt, Kate. "Missionary Pioneer Elisabeth Elliot Passes Through Gates of Splendor". Christianity Today. Retrieved 15 June 2015.  2. ^ a b Roberts, Sam (June 18, 2015). "Elisabeth Elliot, Tenacious Missionary in Face of Tragedy, Dies at 88". The New York Times.  3. ^ "About". Elisabeth Elliot. Retrieved September 1, 2015.  4. ^ "NIV Translators and Editors". Bible Researcher. Retrieved September 1, 2015.  5. ^ Gateway to Joy, Back to the Bible[permanent dead link].  6. ^ "The Making of a Missionary", Gateway to Joy, Back to the Bible.  7. ^ "Missionary Pioneer Elisabeth Elliot Passes Through Gates of S..." Gleanings. ChristianityToday.com. Retrieved September 1, 2015.  8. ^ Owens, Tiffany (March 8, 2014). "Walking through fire". World. Retrieved September 1, 2015.  9. ^ "Elisabeth Elliott". Wheaton.edu. June 16, 2015. Archived from the original on March 6, 2016. Retrieved March 4, 2016.  Books   - Shadow of the Almighty: The Life and Testament of Jim Elliot, 1958, ISBN 978-0-06062213-8 - Through Gates of Splendor, 1957, ISBN 978-0-84237152-0 - These Strange Ashes, 1975, ISBN 978-0800759957 - Quest for Love, ISBN 9780800723149 - The Savage My Kinsman, 1961, ISBN 978-1569550038 - Furnace of the Lord: Reflections on the Redemption of The Holy City, 1969, ISBN 978-0340105979 - Twelve Baskets of Crumbs, 1977, ISBN 9780687427024 - Let Me Be a Woman, 1977, ISBN 978-0842321624 - The Journals of Jim Elliot, 1978, ISBN 978-0800758257 - Passion and Purity: Learning to Bring Your Love Life Under God's Control, 1984, ISBN 978-0800758189 - Discipline: The Glad Surrender, 1982, ISBN 978-0800731311 - Love Has a Price Tag, ISBN 9780830736881 - The Mark of a Man, 1981, ISBN 978-0800731328 - Keep a Quiet Heart, ISBN 978-0800759902 - A Chance to Die: The Life and Legacy of Amy Carmichael, 1987, ISBN 978-0800730895 - Path Through Suffering: Discovering the Relationship Between God's Mercy and Our Pain, 1990, ISBN 978-0800724986 - The Path of Loneliness: Finding Your Way Through the Wilderness to God, 2001, ISBN 978-0800732066 - No Graven Image, 1966, ISBN 978-0891072355 - Secure in the Everlasting Arms, ISBN 978-0800759933 - The Music of His Promises: Listening to God with Love, Trust, and Obedience, ISBN 978-0800759919 - The Shaping of a Christian Family, 1992,ISBN 978-0800731021 - God's Guidance: A Slow and Certain Light, 1976, ISBN 978-0876808641 - Taking Flight: Wisdom for Your Journey, ISBN 978-0801011801 - Be Still My Soul, ISBN 978-0-80075989-6 Portrayals of Elisabeth Elliot   - In 1973, a readers theater production of Bridge of Blood: Jim Elliot Takes Christ to the Aucas was first performed at Tennessee Temple University. - In 2003, a musical based on the story of Jim and Elisabeth Elliot, entitled Love Above All, was staged at the Victoria Concert Hall in Singapore. This musical was staged a second time, in 2007, at the University Cultural Centre, Singapore. - In the 2006 film End of the Spear, she was portrayed by actress Beth Bailey. In Beyond the Gates of Splendor, a documentary film released in 2002, she appears as herself. (The other wives of the murdered missionaries, as well as several Indians, and others, also appear.) External links   - Elisabeth Elliot's home page. - An Interview with Elisabeth Elliot on the website for the musical Love Above All – The Story of Jim and Elisabeth Elliot. - web site of the documentary film, Beyond the Gates of Splendor, which includes an interview with Elisabeth Elliot. - Elisabeth Elliot Papers, Billy Graham Center Archives, Wheaton College. - LIFE Magazine (Nov. 24, 1958)
Elizabeth Barrett Browning (née Moulton-Barrett, /ˈbraʊnɪŋ/; 6 March 1806 – 29 June 1861) was an English poet of the Victorian era, popular in Britain and the United States during her lifetime.   Born in County Durham, the eldest of 12 children, Elizabeth Barrett wrote poetry from about the age of six. Her mother's collection of her poems forms one of the largest extant collections of juvenilia by any English writer. At 15 she became ill, suffering intense head and spinal pain for the rest of her life. Later in life she also developed lung problems, possibly tuberculosis. She took laudanum for the pain from an early age, which is likely to have contributed to her frail health.   In the 1830s Elizabeth was introduced to literary society through her cousin, John Kenyon. Her first adult collection of poems was published in 1838 and she wrote prolifically between 1841 and 1844, producing poetry, translation and prose. She campaigned for the abolition of slavery and her work helped influence reform in the child labour legislation. Her prolific output made her a rival to Tennyson as a candidate for poet laureate on the death of Wordsworth.   Elizabeth's volume Poems (1844) brought her great success, attracting the admiration of the writer Robert Browning. Their correspondence, courtship and marriage were carried out in secret, for fear of her father's disapproval. Following the wedding she was indeed disinherited by her father. The couple moved to Italy in 1846, where she would live for the rest of her life. They had one son, Robert Wiedeman Barrett Browning, whom they called Pen. She died in Florence in 1861. A collection of her last poems was published by her husband shortly after her death.   Elizabeth's work had a major influence on prominent writers of the day, including the American poets Edgar Allan Poe and Emily Dickinson. She is remembered for such poems as "How Do I Love Thee?" (Sonnet 43, 1845) and Aurora Leigh (1856).
Elizabeth de Beauchamp Goudge FRSL (24 April 1900 – 1 April 1984) was a British author of novels, short stories and children's books as Elizabeth Goudge. She won the Carnegie Medal for British children's books in 1946 for The Little White Horse. She was a best-selling author in both the UK and the US from the 1930s to the 1970s.   Goudge gained renewed attention decades later. In 1993 one of her books was plagiarised by Indrani Aikath-Gyaltsen; the "new" novel set in India garnered rave reviews in both The New York Times and The Washington Post before its source was discovered. In 2001 or 2002 J. K. Rowling identified The Little White Horse as one of her favourite books and one of few with direct influence on the Harry Potter series.
Elizabeth Hoyt is a New York Times bestselling author of historical romance. She also writes contemporary romance under the name Julia Harper. She now lives in central Illinois with her husband and two children.
Elizabeth Woolridge Grant (born June 21, 1985), known professionally as Lana Del Rey, is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, poet and music video director. Her music has been noted by critics for its stylized cinematic quality, its preoccupation with themes of tragic romance, glamour, and melancholia, and its references to pop culture, particularly 1950s and 1960s Americana.   Raised in Upstate New York, Del Rey moved to New York City in 2005 to embark on her music career. Following numerous projects including her debut studio album and the unreleased Sirens, Del Rey's breakthrough came after the viral success of her single "Video Games" in 2011. She then signed with Interscope and Polydor later that year. Her major label debut Born to Die (2012) proved an international success and spawned her first top-ten single on the Billboard Hot 100 with the Cedric Gervais remix of "Summertime Sadness". Since, Del Rey has released the US Billboard 200 number-one albums Ultraviolence (2014) and Lust for Life (2017), along with top-ten releases Paradise (2012) and Honeymoon (2015). She has received nominations for the Grammy Award for Best Pop Vocal Album for both Paradise and Lust for Life.   Del Rey has contributed to a variety of film soundtracks, most notably "Young and Beautiful" for The Great Gatsby (2013) and the eponymous theme for Big Eyes (2014), which garnered her a Grammy and Golden Globe nomination, respectively. Del Rey starred in the musical film Tropico (2013) and in short films to accompany her work including Ride (2012), National Anthem (2012), and Freak (2015), all of which she wrote.   Dubbed by the media as the "Queen of Indie Pop", Del Rey has sold over 15 million albums worldwide as of 2018. Her official YouTube channel has accumulated over 3.1 billion views as of November 9, 2018, with 11 of her videos surpassing 100 million views on Vevo.
Ella Wheeler Wilcox (November 5, 1850 – October 30, 1919) was an American author and poet. Her works include Poems of Passion and Solitude, which contains the lines "Laugh, and the world laughs with you; weep, and you weep alone". Her autobiography, The Worlds and I, was published in 1918, a year before her death.
Ellen Lee DeGeneres (/dəˈdʒɛnərəs/ də-JEN-ər-əs; born January 26, 1958) is an American comedian, television host, actress, writer, producer, and LGBT activist. She starred in the popular sitcom Ellen from 1994 to 1998 and has hosted her syndicated TV talk show, The Ellen DeGeneres Show, since 2003.   Her stand-up career started in the early 1980s, and included a 1986 appearance on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson. As a film actress, DeGeneres starred in Mr. Wrong (1996), EDtv (1999), and The Love Letter (1999), and provided the voice of Dory in the Pixar animated films Finding Nemo (2003) and Finding Dory (2016); for Nemo, she was awarded the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress, the first time an actress won a Saturn Award for a voice performance. In 2010, she was a judge on American Idol for its ninth season.   She starred in two television sitcoms, Ellen from 1994 to 1998, and The Ellen Show from 2001 to 2002. During the fourth season of Ellen in 1997, she came out as a lesbian in an appearance on The Oprah Winfrey Show. Her character, Ellen Morgan, also came out to a therapist played by Winfrey, and the series went on to explore various LGBT issues, including the coming-out process. In 2008, she married her longtime girlfriend Portia de Rossi.   DeGeneres has hosted the Academy Awards, Grammy Awards, and the Primetime Emmys. She has authored four books and started her own record company, Eleveneleven, as well as a production company, A Very Good Production. She also launched a lifestyle brand, ED Ellen DeGeneres, which comprises a collection of apparel, accessories, home, baby, and pet items. She has won 30 Emmys, 20 People's Choice Awards (more than any other person), and numerous other awards for her work and charitable efforts. In 2016, she received the Presidential Medal of Freedom.
Emil Cioran (Romanian: [eˈmil t͡ʃoˈran] (; 8 April 1911 – 20 June 1995) was a Romanian philosopher and essayist, who published works in both Romanian and French. His work has been noted for its pervasive philosophical pessimism, and frequently engages with issues of suffering, decay, and nihilism. Among his best-known works are On the Heights of Despair (1934) and The Trouble with Being Born (1973). Cioran's first French book, A Short History of Decay, was awarded the prestigious Rivarol Prize in 1950. The Latin Quarter of Paris was his permanent residence and he lived much of his life in isolation with his partner Simone Boué.
Emilie Autumn Liddell (born on September 22, 1979), better known by her stage name Emilie Autumn, is an American singer-songwriter, poet, violinist, and actress. Autumn's musical style is described by her as "Fairy Pop", "Fantasy Rock" or "Victoriandustrial". It is influenced by glam rock and from plays, novels, and history, particularly the Victorian era. Performing with her all-female backup dancers The Bloody Crumpets, Autumn incorporates elements of classical music, cabaret, electronica, and glam rock with theatrics, and burlesque.   Growing up in Malibu, California, Autumn began learning the violin at the age of four and left regular school five years later with the goal of becoming a world-class violinist; she practiced eight or nine hours a day and read a wide range of literature. Progressing to writing her own music, she studied under various teachers and went to Indiana University, which she left over issues regarding the relationship between classical music and the appearance of the performer. Through her own independent label Traitor Records, Autumn debuted with her classical album On a Day: Music for Violin & Continuo, followed by the release in 2003 of her album Enchant.   Autumn appeared in singer Courtney Love's backing band on her 2004 America's Sweetheart tour and returned to Europe. She released the 2006 album Opheliac with the German label Trisol Music Group. In 2007, she released Laced/Unlaced; the re-release of On a Day... appeared as Laced with songs on the electric violin as Unlaced. She later left Trisol to join New York based The End Records in 2009 and release Opheliac in the United States, where previously it had only been available as an import. In 2012, she released the album Fight Like a Girl. She played the role of Painted Doll in Darren Lynn Bousman's 2012 film The Devil's Carnival, as well as its 2015 sequel, Alleluia! The Devil's Carnival.
Emma Donoghue (born 24 October 1969) is an Irish-Canadian playwright, literary historian, novelist, and screenwriter. Her 2010 novel Room was a finalist for the Man Booker Prize and an international best-seller. Donoghue's 1995 novel Hood won the Stonewall Book Award. and Slammerkin (2000) won the Ferro-Grumley Award for Lesbian Fiction. Room was adapted into a film of the same name, for which Donoghue wrote the screenplay which was subsequently nominated for the Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay.
Eoin Colfer  (/ˈoʊ.ɪn/; born 14 May 1965) is an Irish author of children's books. He worked as a primary school teacher before he became a full-time writer. He is best known for being the author of the Artemis Fowl series. In September 2008, Colfer was commissioned to write the sixth installment of the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy series, entitled And Another Thing ..., which was published in October 2009. In October 2016, in a contract with Marvel Comics, he released  Iron Man: The Gauntlet.
Epictetus (/ˌɛpɪkˈtiːtəs/; Greek: Ἐπίκτητος, Epíktētos; c. 55 – 135 AD) was a Greek Stoic philosopher. He was born a slave at Hierapolis, Phrygia (present day Pamukkale, Turkey) and lived in Rome until his banishment, when he went to Nicopolis in northwestern Greece for the rest of his life. His teachings were written down and published by his pupil Arrian in his Discourses and Enchiridion.   Epictetus taught that philosophy is a way of life and not just a theoretical discipline. To Epictetus, all external events are beyond our control; we should accept calmly and dispassionately whatever happens. However, individuals are responsible for their own actions, which they can examine and control through rigorous self-discipline.
Epicurus (341–270 BC) was an ancient Greek philosopher who founded a highly influential school of philosophy now called Epicureanism. He was born on the Greek island of Samos to Athenian parents. Influenced by Democritus, Aristotle, and possibly the Cynics, he turned against the Platonism of his day and established his own school, known as "the Garden", in Athens. He and his followers were known for eating simple meals and discussing a wide range of philosophical subjects, and he openly allowed women to join the school as a matter of policy. An extremely prolific writer, he is said to have originally written over 300 works on various subjects, but the vast majority of these writings have been lost. Only three letters written by him—the Letters to Menoeceus, Pythocles, and Herodotus—and two collections of quotes—the Principle Doctrines and the Vatican Sayings—have survived intact, along with a few fragments and quotations of his other writings. His teachings are better recorded in the writings of later authors, including the Roman poet Lucretius, the philosopher Philodemus, the philosopher Sextus Empiricus, and the biographer Diogenes Laërtius.   For Epicurus, the purpose of philosophy was to attain the happy, tranquil life, characterized by ataraxia—peace and freedom from fear— and aponia—the absence of pain— and by living a self-sufficient life surrounded by friends. He taught that the root of all human neurosis is death denial, and the tendency for human beings to assume that death will be horrific and painful, which he claimed causes unnecessary anxiety, selfish self-protective behaviors, and hypocrisy. According to Epicurus, death is the end of both the body and the soul and therefore should not be feared. Likewise, Epicurus taught that the gods, though they do exist, have no involvement in human affairs and do not punish or reward people for their actions. Nonetheless, he maintained that people should still behave ethically because amoral behavior will burden them with guilt and prevent them from attaining ataraxia.   Like Aristotle, Epicurus was an empiricist, meaning he believed that the senses are the only reliable source of knowledge about the world. He derived much of his physics and cosmology from the earlier philosopher Democritus (c. 460–c. 370 BC). Like Democritus, Epicurus taught that the universe is infinite and eternal and that all matter is made up of extremely tiny, invisible particles known as atoms. All occurrences in the natural world are ultimately the result of atoms moving and interacting in empty space. Epicurus deviated from Democritus in his teaching of atomic "swerve", which holds that atoms may deviate from their expected course, thus permitting humans to possess free will in an otherwise deterministic universe.   Though popular, Epicurean teachings were controversial from the beginning. Epicureanism reached the height of its popularity during the late years of the Roman Republic, before declining as the rival school of Stoicism grew in popularity at its expense. It finally died out in late antiquity in the wake of early Christianity. Epicurus himself was popularly, though inaccurately, remembered throughout the Middle Ages as a patron of drunkards, whoremongers, and gluttons. His teachings gradually became more widely known in the fifteenth century with the rediscovery of important texts, but his ideas did not become acceptable until the seventeenth century, when the French Catholic priest Pierre Gassendi revived a modified version of them, which was promoted by other writers, including Walter Charleton and Robert Boyle. His influence grew considerably during and after the Enlightenment, profoundly impacting the ideas of major thinkers, including John Locke, Thomas Jefferson, Jeremy Bentham, and Karl Marx.
Erica Jong (née Mann; born March 26, 1942) is an American novelist, satirist, and poet, known particularly for her 1973 novel Fear of Flying. The book became famously controversial for its attitudes towards female sexuality and figured prominently in the development of second-wave feminism. According to Washington Post, it has sold more than 20 million copies worldwide.
Eric Arthur Blair (25 June 1903 – 21 January 1950), better known by his pen name George Orwell, was an English novelist, essayist, journalist and critic, whose work is marked by lucid prose, awareness of social injustice, opposition to totalitarianism, and outspoken support of democratic socialism.   Orwell wrote literary criticism, poetry, fiction and polemical journalism. He is best known for the allegorical novella Animal Farm (1945) and the dystopian novel Nineteen Eighty-Four (1949). His non-fiction works, including The Road to Wigan Pier (1937), documenting his experience of working class life in the north of England, and Homage to Catalonia (1938), an account of his experiences on the Republican side in the Spanish Civil War, are widely acclaimed, as are his essays on politics, literature, language and culture. In 2008, The Times ranked him second on a list of "The 50 greatest British writers since 1945".   Orwell's work continues to influence popular and political culture and the term "Orwellian"—descriptive of totalitarian or authoritarian social practices—has entered the language together with many of his neologisms, including "Big Brother", "Thought Police", "Room 101", "memory hole", "newspeak", "doublethink", "proles", "unperson" and "thoughtcrime".
Erich Maria Remarque (born Erich Paul Remark; 22 June 1898 – 25 September 1970) was a German novelist who created many works about the horrors of war. His best known novel All Quiet on the Western Front (1928), about German soldiers in the First World War, was made into an Oscar-winning film. His book made him an enemy of the Nazis, who burned many of his works.
Eric Hoffer (July 25, 1898 – May 21, 1983) was an American moral and social philosopher. He was the author of ten books and was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in February 1983. His first book, The True Believer (1951), was widely recognized as a classic, receiving critical acclaim from both scholars and laymen, although Hoffer believed that The Ordeal of Change (1963) was his finest work.
Erik Pevernagie (born 1939) is a Belgian painter and writer, living in Uccle/Ukkel (Brussels), who has held exhibitions in Paris, New York City, Berlin, Düsseldorf, Amsterdam, London, Brussels and Antwerp.
Erin Hunter is a collective pseudonym used by the authors Victoria Holmes, Kate Cary, Cherith Baldry, Gillian Philip, Inbali Iserles, Tui T. Sutherland, and Rosie Best, in the writing of several juvenile fantasy novel series, which focus on animals and their adventures. Notable works include the Warriors, Seekers,  Survivors, and Bravelands book series. Each of the authors play a different role: while Holmes creates the storyline of each book, Cary, Baldry, and Sutherland take turns writing the books. In addition, another person who is not an Erin Hunter writes the manga: Dan Jolley.
Erin Morgenstern (born July 8, 1978) is an American multimedia artist and the author of a successful fantasy novel, The Night Circus (2011). It was published in more than a dozen languages by 2013 and won the annual Locus Award for Best First Novel.
Erma Louise Bombeck (née Fiste; February 21, 1927 – April 22, 1996) was an American humorist who achieved great popularity for her newspaper column that described suburban home life from the mid-1960s until the late 1990s. Bombeck also published 15 books, most of which became bestsellers. From 1965 to 1996, Erma Bombeck wrote over 4,000 newspaper columns, using broad and sometimes eloquent humor, chronicling the ordinary life of a midwestern suburban housewife. By the 1970s, her columns were read twice-weekly by 30 million readers of the 900 newspapers in the U.S. and Canada.
Ernst Jünger ([ɛʁnst ˈjʏŋɐ]; 29 March 1895 – 17 February 1998) was a highly decorated German soldier, author, and entomologist who became publicly known for his World War I memoir Storm of Steel. The son of a successful businessman and chemist, Jünger rebelled against an affluent upbringing and sought adventure in the Wandervogel, before running away to briefly serve in the French Foreign Legion, an illegal act. Because he escaped prosecution in Germany due to his father's efforts, Jünger was able to enlist on the outbreak of war. During an ill-fated German offensive in 1918 Jünger's World War I career ended with the last and most serious of his many woundings, and he was awarded the Pour le Mérite, a rare decoration for one of his rank.   In the aftermath of World War II, Jünger was treated with some suspicion as a possible fellow traveler of the Nazis. By the latter stages of the Cold War, his unorthodox writings about the impact of materialism in modern society were widely seen as conservative rather than radical nationalist, and his philosophical works came to be highly regarded in mainstream German circles. Jünger ended life as an honoured establishment figure, although critics continued to charge him with the glorification of war as a transcendental experience.
Eudora Alice Welty (April 13, 1909 – July 23, 2001) was an American short story writer and novelist who wrote about the American South. Her novel The Optimist's Daughter won the Pulitzer Prize in 1973. Welty received numerous awards, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the Order of the South. She was the first living author to have her works published by the Library of America. Her house in Jackson, Mississippi has been designated as a National Historic Landmark and is open to the public as a house museum.
Eugen Berthold Friedrich Brecht (/brɛxt/; German: [bʁɛçt]; 10 February 1898 – 14 August 1956), known professionally as Bertolt Brecht, was a German theatre practitioner, playwright, and poet.   Living in Munich during the Weimar Republic, he had his first successes with theatre plays, whose themes were often influenced by his Marxist thought. He was the main proponent of the genre named epic theatre (which he preferred to call "dialectical theatre"). During the Nazi period and World War II he lived in exile, first in Scandinavia and then in the United States. Returning to East Berlin after the war, he established the theatre company Berliner Ensemble with his wife and long-time collaborator, actress Helene Weigel.
Eugene Luther Gore Vidal (/vɪˈdɑːl/; born Eugene Louis Vidal, October 3, 1925 – July 31, 2012) was an American writer and public intellectual known for his patrician manner, epigrammatic wit, and polished style of writing.   Vidal was born to a political family; his maternal grandfather, Thomas Pryor Gore, served as United States senator from Oklahoma (1907–1921 and 1931–1937). He was a Democratic Party politician who twice sought elected office; first to the United States House of Representatives (New York, 1960), then to the U.S. Senate (California, 1982).   As a political commentator and essayist, Vidal's principal subject was the history of the United States and its society, especially how the militaristic foreign policy reduced the country to a decadent empire. His political and cultural essays were published in The Nation, the New Statesman, the New York Review of Books, and Esquire magazines. As a public intellectual, Gore Vidal's topical debates on sex, politics, and religion with other intellectuals and writers occasionally turned into quarrels with the likes of William F. Buckley Jr. and Norman Mailer. Vidal thought all men and women are potentially bisexual, so he rejected the adjectives "homosexual" and "heterosexual" when used as nouns as inherently false terms used to classify and control people in society.   As a novelist Vidal explored the nature of corruption in public and private life. His polished and erudite style of narration readily evoked the time and place of his stories, and perceptively delineated the psychology of his characters. His third novel, The City and the Pillar (1948), offended the literary, political, and moral sensibilities of conservative book reviewers, with a dispassionately presented male homosexual relationship. In the historical novel genre, Vidal re-created in Julian (1964) the imperial world of Julian the Apostate (r. AD 361–63), the Roman emperor who used general religious toleration to re-establish pagan polytheism to counter the political subversion of Christian monotheism. In the genre of social satire, Myra Breckinridge (1968) explores the mutability of gender role and sexual orientation as being social constructs established by social mores. In Burr (1973) and Lincoln (1984), the protagonist is presented as "A Man of the People" and as "A Man" in a narrative exploration of how the public and private facets of personality affect the national politics of the U.S.
Euripides (/jʊəˈrɪpɪdiːz/; Greek: Εὐριπίδης Eurīpídēs, pronounced [eu̯.riː.pí.dɛːs]; c. 480 – c. 406 BC) was a tragedian of classical Athens. Along with Aeschylus and Sophocles, he is one of the three ancient Greek tragedians for whom a significant number of plays have survived. Some ancient scholars attributed 95 plays to him but, according to the Suda, it was 92 at most. Of these, 18 or 19 have survived more or less complete (there has been debate about his authorship of Rhesus, largely on stylistic grounds) and there are also fragments, some substantial, of most of the other plays. More of his plays have survived intact than those of Aeschylus and Sophocles together, partly because his popularity grew as theirs declined—he became, in the Hellenistic Age, a cornerstone of ancient literary education, along with Homer, Demosthenes, and Menander.   Euripides is identified with theatrical innovations that have profoundly influenced drama down to modern times, especially in the representation of traditional, mythical heroes as ordinary people in extraordinary circumstances. This new approach led him to pioneer developments that later writers adapted to comedy, some of which are characteristic of romance. Yet he also became "the most tragic of poets",[nb 1] focusing on the inner lives and motives of his characters in a way previously unknown. He was "the creator of...that cage which is the theatre of Shakespeare's Othello, Racine's Phèdre, of Ibsen and Strindberg," in which "...imprisoned men and women destroy each other by the intensity of their loves and hates", and yet he was also the literary ancestor of comic dramatists as diverse as Menander and George Bernard Shaw.   Unique among writers of Ancient Athens, Euripides demonstrated sympathy towards the underrepresented members of society.  His male contemporaries were frequently shocked by the 'heresies' he put into the mouths of characters, such as these words of his heroine Medea:          Sooner would I stand  Three times to face their battles, shield in hand,  Than bear one child!      His contemporaries associated him with Socrates as a leader of a decadent intellectualism, both of them being frequently lampooned by comic poets such as Aristophanes. Whereas Socrates was eventually put on trial and executed as a corrupting influence, Euripides chose a voluntary exile in old age, dying in Macedonia. Recent scholarship casts doubt on ancient biographies of Euripides. For example, it is possible that he never visited Macedonia at all, or, if he did, he might have been drawn there by King Archelaus with incentives that were also offered to other artists.
Eve Ensler (/ˈɛnzlər/; born May 25, 1953) is an American playwright, performer, feminist, and activist, best known for her play The Vagina Monologues. In 2006 Charles Isherwood of The New York Times called The Vagina Monologues "probably the most important piece of political theater of the last decade."   In 2011, Ensler was awarded the Isabelle Stevenson Award at the 65th Tony Awards, which recognizes an individual from the theater community who has made a substantial contribution of volunteered time and effort on behalf of humanitarian, social service, or charitable organizations. Ensler was given this award for her creation of the non-profit, V-Day movement which raises money and educates the public about violence against women and efforts to stop it.
Falling Kingdoms is a fantasy book series for young adults by Morgan Rhodes.It follows the lives of four teenagers, Princess Cleo, Prince Magnus, Princess Lucia, and Jonas the wine sellers son.  Falling Kingdoms (2012, Penguin, ISBN 9780141346168) is the first novel of the series.  The book starts off with two of the countries of Mytica deciding to usurp the king of the other country, Auranos. The series has a planned six books.  The second novel of the series is Rebel Spring (2014, Penguin, ISBN 9781595145925). Gathering Darkness is the third part of the series, followed by book four "Frozen Tides", book five "Crystal Storm", and book six "Immortal Reign".   References    1. ^ "Exclusive Interview With Morgan Rhodes, New York Times Best-Selling Author Of the Falling Kingdom Series". The Huffington Post. 2014-09-08. Retrieved 2016-02-14.  2. ^ Morgan Rhodes (11 December 2012). Falling Kingdoms. Penguin Books Limited. ISBN 978-0-14-134616-8.  3. ^ Lamoureux, Jen (2012-12-11). "'Falling Kingdoms' by Morgan Rhodes leads today's new releases". Hypable. Retrieved 2016-02-14.  4. ^ "Falling Kingdoms by Morgan Rhodes - review". the Guardian. 2015-02-13. Retrieved 2016-02-14.  5. ^ "Rebel Spring". Google Books. 2016-02-04. Retrieved 2016-02-14.  6. ^ Morgan Rhodes (9 December 2014). Gathering Darkness: A Falling Kingdoms Novel. Penguin Young Readers Group. ISBN 978-1-101-62320-6.       This article about a young adult novel of the 2010s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e See guidelines for writing about novels. Further suggestions might be found on the article's talk page.
Faraaz Kazi (born November 10, 1987) is an Indian author, primarily writing mainstream romance and best known for his debut novel Truly Madly Deeply, published by the Cedar Books imprint of Pustak Mahal and re-released by Mahaveer Publishers in 2012. Kazi has been called the 'Nicholas Sparks of India'.
Ferit Orhan Pamuk (generally known simply as Orhan Pamuk; born 7 June 1952) is a Turkish novelist, screenwriter, academic and recipient of the 2006 Nobel Prize in Literature. One of Turkey's most prominent novelists, his work has sold over thirteen million books in sixty-three languages, making him the country's best-selling writer.   Pamuk is the author of novels including Silent House, The White Castle, The Black Book, The New Life, My Name Is Red, Snow, The Museum of Innocence, and A Strangeness in My Mind. He is the Robert Yik-Fong Tam Professor in the Humanities at Columbia University, where he teaches writing and comparative literature. He was elected to the American Philosophical Society in 2018.   Of partial Circassian descent and born in Istanbul, Pamuk is the first Turkish Nobel laureate. He is also the recipient of numerous other literary awards. My Name Is Red won the 2002 Prix du Meilleur Livre Étranger, 2002 Premio Grinzane Cavour and 2003 International Dublin Literary Award.   The European Writers' Parliament came about as a result of a joint proposal by Pamuk and José Saramago. In 2005, the ultra-nationalist lawyer Kemal Kerinçsiz sued Pamuk over his statement regarding the Armenian Genocide in the Ottoman Empire. His intention, according to Pamuk himself, had been to highlight issues relating to freedom of speech in the country of his birth. The court initially declined to hear the case, but in 2011 Pamuk was ordered to pay 6,000 liras in total compensation for having insulted the plaintiffs' honor.
Fernando António Nogueira Pessoa (Portuguese: [fɨɾˈnɐ̃du pɨˈsoɐ]; 13 June 1888 – 30 November 1935), commonly known as Fernando Pessoa, was a Portuguese poet, writer, literary critic, translator, publisher and philosopher, described as one of the most significant literary figures of the 20th century and one of the greatest poets in the Portuguese language. He also wrote in and translated from English and French.   Pessoa was a prolific writer, and not only under his own name, for he dreamed up approximately seventy-five others. He did not call them pseudonyms because he felt that did not capture their true independent intellectual life and instead called them heteronyms. These imaginary figures sometimes held unpopular or extreme views.
Florence Margaret Smith, known as Stevie Smith (20 September 1902 – 7 March 1971), was an English poet and novelist.
Francesca Lia Block (born December 3, 1962) is an American writer of adult and young-adult literature: fiction, short stories, screenplays and poetry. She is known best for the Weetzie Bat series — named after its first installment and her first novel, which she wrote while a UC Berkeley student, Weetzie Bat (HarperColins, 1989). She is known for her use of imagery, especially in describing the city of Los Angeles. One New York Times Book Review critic said, "Block writes about the real Los Angeles better than anyone since Raymond Chandler." She won the Margaret Edwards Award from the American Library Association in 2005 for her contribution in writing for teens.
Francesco Petrarca (Italian: [franˈtʃesko peˈtrarka]; July 20, 1304 – July 18/19, 1374), commonly anglicized as Petrarch (/ˈpiːtrɑːrk, ˈpɛ-/), was a scholar and poet of Renaissance Italy who was one of the earliest humanists. His rediscovery of Cicero's letters is often credited with initiating the 14th-century Renaissance. Petrarch is often considered the founder of Humanism. In the 16th century, Pietro Bembo created the model for the modern Italian language based on Petrarch's works, as well as those of Giovanni Boccaccio, and, to a lesser extent, Dante Alighieri. Petrarch would be later endorsed as a model for Italian style by the Accademia della Crusca.   Petrarch's sonnets were admired and imitated throughout Europe during the Renaissance and became a model for lyrical poetry. He is also known for being the first to develop the concept of the "Dark Ages."
Francis Bacon, 1st Viscount St Alban, PC QC (/ˈbeɪkən/; 22 January 1561 – 9 April 1626) was an English philosopher and statesman, who served as Attorney General, and as Lord Chancellor of England. His works are credited with developing the scientific method, and remained influential through the scientific revolution.   Bacon has been called the father of empiricism. His works argued for the possibility of scientific knowledge based only upon inductive reasoning and careful observation of events in nature. Most importantly, he argued this could be achieved by use of a sceptical and methodical approach whereby scientists aim to avoid misleading themselves. While his own practical ideas about such a method, the Baconian method, did not have a long-lasting influence, the general idea of the importance and possibility of a sceptical methodology makes Bacon the father of the scientific method. This marked a new turn in the rhetorical and theoretical framework for science, the practical details of which are still central in debates about science and methodology today. In addition to his work in the sciences, Bacon was also a venerable patron of libraries and developed a functional system for the cataloging of books by dividing them into three categories—history, poetry, and philosophy—which could further be divided into more specific subjects and subheadings. Bacon was educated at Trinity College, Cambridge where he rigorously followed the medieval curriculum, largely in Latin.   Bacon is the first recipient of the Queen's counsel designation, which was conferred in 1597 when Queen Elizabeth reserved Bacon as her legal advisor. After the accession of King James I in 1603, Bacon was knighted. He was later created Baron Verulam in 1618 and Viscount St. Alban in 1621. Because he had no heirs, both titles became extinct upon his death in 1626, at 65 years of age. Bacon died of pneumonia, with one account by John Aubrey stating that he had contracted the condition while studying the effects of freezing on the preservation of meat. He is buried at St Michael's Church, St Albans, Hertfordshire.
Francis Israel Regardie (/rɪˈɡɑːrdi/; né Regudy; November 17, 1907 – March 10, 1985) was an English occultist, ceremonial magician and writer who spent much of his life in the United States.   Born to a working-class Orthodox Jewish family in the East End of London, Regardie and his family soon moved to Washington DC in the United States. Regardie rejected Orthodox Judaism during his teenage years and took an interest in Theosophy, Hinduism, Buddhism and mystical Judaism. It was through his interest in yoga that he encountered the writings of the occultist Aleister Crowley. Contacting Crowley, he was invited to serve as the occultist's secretary, necessitating a move to Paris, France in 1928. He followed Crowley to England before their association ended. Living in England, he wrote two books on the Qabalah, A Garden of Pomegranates and The Tree of Life. In 1934 he then joined the Stella Matutina—a ceremonial magic order descended from the defunct Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn—but grew dissatisfied with its leadership and left. He also studied psychology, being particularly influenced by ideas from Jungian psychology, and explored Christian mysticism.   In 1937 he returned to the United States. Concerned that the Golden Dawn system of ceremonial magic would be lost, he published the Stella Matutina rituals in a series of books between 1938 and 1940. This entailed breaking his oath of secrecy and brought anger from many other occultists. During the Second World War he served in the U.S. Army. On returning to the U.S., he gained a doctorate in psychology before relocating to Los Angeles in 1947 and setting up practice as a chiropractor. In 1981 he retired and moved to Sedona, Arizona, where he died of a heart attack four years later.
François-Marie Arouet (French: [fʁɑ̃swa maʁi aʁwɛ]; 21 November 1694 – 30 May 1778), known by his nom de plume Voltaire (/vɒlˈtɛər/; French: [vɔltɛːʁ]), was a French Enlightenment writer, historian and philosopher famous for his wit, his criticism of Christianity, especially the Roman Catholic Church, and his advocacy of freedom of religion, freedom of speech, and separation of church and state.   Voltaire was a versatile and prolific writer, producing works in almost every literary form, including plays, poems, novels, essays and historical and scientific works. He wrote more than 20,000 letters and more than 2,000 books and pamphlets. He was an outspoken advocate of civil liberties, despite the risk this placed him in under the strict censorship laws of the time. As a satirical polemicist, he frequently made use of his works to criticize intolerance, religious dogma and the French institutions of his day.
Frank ZappaZappa performing live at Ekeberghallen in Oslo, Norway, 1977BornFrank Vincent Zappa (1940-12-21)December 21, 1940 Baltimore, Maryland, U.S.DiedDecember 4, 1993(1993-12-04) (aged 52) Los Angeles, California, U.S.Resting placePierce Brothers Westwood Village Memorial Park and MortuaryOccupation  - Musician - composer - activist - filmmakerYears active1955–1993Spouse(s)Kay Sherman (m. 1960–1964) Adelaide Gail Sloatman (m. 1967–1993)Children  - Moon Zappa - Dweezil Zappa - Ahmet Zappa - Diva ZappaMusical careerOriginLos Angeles, California, U.S.Genres  - Rock - experimental - jazz - classical - pop - avant-garde - doo-wopInstruments  - Vocals - guitar - bass - synclavier - keyboards - drums - percussionLabels  - Verve - Bizarre - Straight - DiscReet - Zappa - Barking PumpkinAssociated acts  - The Mothers of Invention - Captain BeefheartWebsitezappa.com   Frank Vincent Zappa[nb 1] (December 21, 1940 – December 4, 1993) was an American musician, composer, activist and filmmaker. His work is characterized by nonconformity, free-form improvisation, sound experiments, musical virtuosity, and satire of American culture. In a career spanning more than 30 years, Zappa composed rock, pop, jazz, jazz fusion, orchestral and musique concrète works, and produced almost all of the 60-plus albums that he released with his band the Mothers of Invention and as a solo artist. Zappa also directed feature-length films and music videos, and designed album covers. He is considered one of the most innovative and stylistically diverse rock musicians of his era.   As a self-taught composer and performer, Zappa's diverse musical influences led him to create music that was sometimes difficult to categorize. While in his teens, he acquired a taste for 20th-century classical composers such as Edgard Varèse, Igor Stravinsky, and Anton Webern, along with 1950s rhythm and blues and doo-wop music. He began writing classical music in high school, while at the same time playing drums in rhythm and blues bands, later switching to electric guitar. His 1966 debut album with the Mothers of Invention, Freak Out!, combined songs in conventional rock and roll format with collective improvisations and studio-generated sound collages. He continued this eclectic and experimental approach, irrespective of whether the fundamental format was rock, jazz or classical.   Zappa's output is unified by a conceptual continuity he termed "Project/Object", with numerous musical phrases, ideas, and characters reappearing across his albums. His lyrics reflected his iconoclastic views of established social and political processes, structures and movements, often humorously so. Zappa's often comedic lyrics led AllMusic to describe him as the "godfather" of comedy rock. He was a strident critic of mainstream education and organized religion, and a forthright and passionate advocate for freedom of speech, self-education, political participation and the abolition of censorship. Unlike many other rock musicians of his generation, he personally disapproved of drugs and never used them again after briefly trying marijuana, but supported their decriminalization and regulation.   During Zappa's lifetime, he was a highly productive and prolific artist with a controversial critical standing; supporters of his music admired its compositional complexity, while critics found it lacking emotional depth. He had some commercial success, particularly in Europe, and worked as an independent artist for most of his career. He remains a major influence on musicians and composers. His honors include his 1995 induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and the 1997 Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award. In 2000, he was ranked number 36 on VH1's 100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock. In 2004, Rolling Stone magazine ranked him at number 71 on its list of the "100 Greatest Artists of All Time", and in 2011 at number 22 on its list of the "100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time".
Franz Kafka (3 July 1883 – 3 June 1924) was a German-speaking Bohemian Jewish novelist and short story writer, widely regarded as one of the major figures of 20th-century literature. His work, which fuses elements of realism and the fantastic, typically features isolated protagonists faced by bizarre or surrealistic predicaments and incomprehensible social-bureaucratic powers, and has been interpreted as exploring themes of alienation, existential anxiety, guilt, and absurdity. His best known works include "Die Verwandlung" ("The Metamorphosis"), Der Process (The Trial), and Das Schloss (The Castle). The term Kafkaesque has entered the English language to describe situations like those in his writing.   Kafka was born into a middle-class, German-speaking Jewish family in Prague, the capital of the Kingdom of Bohemia, then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, today the capital of the Czech Republic. He trained as a lawyer, and after completing his legal education he was employed by an insurance company, forcing him to relegate writing to his spare time. Over the course of his life, Kafka wrote hundreds of letters to family and close friends, including his father, with whom he had a strained and formal relationship. He became engaged to several women but never married. He died in 1924 at the age of 40 from tuberculosis.   Few of Kafka's works were published during his lifetime: the story collections Betrachtung (Contemplation) and Ein Landarzt (A Country Doctor), and individual stories (such as "Die Verwandlung") were published in literary magazines but received little public attention. Kafka's unfinished works, including his novels Der Process, Das Schloss and Der Verschollene (translated as both Amerika and The Man Who Disappeared), were ordered by Kafka to be destroyed by his friend Max Brod, who nonetheless ignored his friend's direction and published them after Kafka's death. His work went on to influence a vast range of writers, critics, artists, and philosophers during the 20th century.
Frederick Douglass (born Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey; c. February 1818 – February 20, 1895) was an American social reformer, abolitionist, orator, writer, and statesman. After escaping from slavery in Maryland, he became a national leader of the abolitionist movement in Massachusetts and New York, gaining note for his oratory and incisive antislavery writings. In his time, he was described by abolitionists as a living counter-example to slaveholders' arguments that slaves lacked the intellectual capacity to function as independent American citizens. Northerners at the time found it hard to believe that such a great orator had once been a slave.   Douglass wrote several autobiographies. He described his experiences as a slave in his 1845 autobiography, Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave, which became a bestseller, and was influential in promoting the cause of abolition, as was his second book, My Bondage and My Freedom (1855). After the Civil War, Douglass remained an active campaigner against slavery and wrote his last autobiography, Life and Times of Frederick Douglass. First published in 1881 and revised in 1892, three years before his death, it covered events during and after the Civil War. Douglass also actively supported women's suffrage, and held several public offices. Without his approval, Douglass became the first African American nominated for Vice President of the United States as the running mate and Vice Presidential nominee of Victoria Woodhull, on the Equal Rights Party ticket.   Douglass was a firm believer in the equality of all peoples, whether black, female, Native American, or recent immigrant. He was also a believer in dialogue and in making alliances across racial and ideological divides, and in the liberal values of the U.S. Constitution. When radical abolitionists, under the motto "No Union With Slaveholders", criticized Douglass' willingness to dialogue with slave owners, he famously replied: "I would unite with anybody to do right and with nobody to do wrong."
Fredrik Backman (born 2 June 1981) is a Swedish columnist, blogger and writer. He is the author of A Man Called Ove (2012), My Grandmother Asked Me to Tell You She's Sorry (2013), Britt-Marie Was Here (2014), Beartown (2017), and Us Against You (2018). They were number one bestsellers in his native Sweden. They have been published around the world in more than twenty-five languages.
Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche (/ˈniːtʃə, -tʃi/; German: [ˈfʁiːtʁɪç ˈvɪlhɛlm ˈniːtʃə] ( or [- ˈniːt͡sʃə]; 15 October 1844 – 25 August 1900) was a German philosopher, cultural critic, composer, poet, philologist, and Latin and Greek scholar whose work has exerted a profound influence on Western philosophy and modern intellectual history. He began his career as a classical philologist before turning to philosophy. He became the youngest ever to hold the Chair of Classical Philology at the University of Basel in 1869 at the age of 24. Nietzsche resigned in 1879 due to health problems that plagued him most of his life; he completed much of his core writing in the following decade. In 1889 at age 44, he suffered a collapse and afterward, a complete loss of his mental faculties. He lived his remaining years in the care of his mother until her death in 1897 and then with his sister Elisabeth Förster-Nietzsche. Nietzsche died in 1900.   Nietzsche's body of work touched a wide range of topics, including art, philology, history, religion, tragedy, culture and science. His early inspiration was drawn from figures such as Arthur Schopenhauer, Richard Wagner and Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. His writing spans philosophical polemics, poetry, cultural criticism and fiction while displaying a fondness for aphorism and irony. Prominent elements of his philosophy include his radical critique of truth in favor of perspectivism; his genealogical critique of religion and Christian morality and his related theory of master–slave morality; his aesthetic affirmation of existence in response to the "death of God" and the profound crisis of nihilism; his notion of the Apollonian and Dionysian; and his characterization of the human subject as the expression of competing wills, collectively understood as the will to power. He also developed influential concepts such as the Übermensch and the doctrine of eternal return. In his later work, he became increasingly preoccupied with the creative powers of the individual to overcome social, cultural and moral contexts in pursuit of new values and aesthetic health.   Nietzsche was explicitly opposed to antisemitism and nationalism, although his sister attempted to associate his work with fascism and Nazism.   Nietzsche's thought enjoyed renewed popularity in the 1960s and his ideas have since had a profound impact on 20th and early-21st century thinkers across philosophy—especially in schools of continental philosophy such as existentialism, postmodernism and post-structuralism—as well as art, literature, psychology, politics and popular culture.
Fritjof Capra (born February 1, 1939) is an Austrian-born American physicist, systems theorist and deep ecologist. In 1995, he became a founding director of the Center for Ecoliteracy in Berkeley, California. He is on the faculty of Schumacher College.   Capra is the author of several books, including The Tao of Physics (1975), The Turning Point (1982), Uncommon Wisdom (1988), The Web of Life (1996), The Hidden Connections (2002) and The Systems View of Life (2014).
Fuad Alakbarov (Azerbaijani: Fuad Ələkbərov; born 22 November 1988) is an Azerbaijani-Scottish human rights activist, political commentator, humanitarian, contemporary artist, photojournalist and chess player. In 2017, he was nominated for the Noon Award by University of East London. Since 2017, he represents Scotland at international chess championships.
Gabriel José de la Concordia García Márquez (American Spanish: [ɡaˈβɾjel ɣaɾˈsi.a ˈmaɾkes] (; 6 March 1927 – 17 April 2014) was a Colombian novelist, short-story writer, screenwriter and journalist, known affectionately as Gabo [ˈɡaβo] or Gabito [ɡaˈβito] throughout Latin America. Considered one of the most significant authors of the 20th century and one of the best in the Spanish language, he was awarded the 1972 Neustadt International Prize for Literature and the 1982 Nobel Prize in Literature. He pursued a self-directed education that resulted in his leaving law school for a career in journalism. From early on, he showed no inhibitions in his criticism of Colombian and foreign politics. In 1958, he married Mercedes Barcha; they had two sons, Rodrigo and Gonzalo.   García Márquez started as a journalist, and wrote many acclaimed non-fiction works and short stories, but is best known for his novels, such as One Hundred Years of Solitude (1967), The Autumn of the Patriarch (1975), and Love in the Time of Cholera (1985). His works have achieved significant critical acclaim and widespread commercial success, most notably for popularizing a literary style known as magic realism, which uses magical elements and events in otherwise ordinary and realistic situations. Some of his works are set in the fictional village of Macondo (mainly inspired by his birthplace, Aracataca), and most of them explore the theme of solitude.   Upon García Márquez’s death in April 2014, Juan Manuel Santos, the President of Colombia, called him "the greatest Colombian who ever lived."
Gabrielle Bonheur "Coco" Chanel (19 August 1883 – 10 January 1971) was a French fashion designer and business woman. The founder and namesake of the Chanel brand, she was credited in the post-World War I era with liberating women from the constraints of the "corseted silhouette" and popularizing a sporty, casual chic as the feminine standard of style. A prolific fashion creator, Chanel extended her influence beyond couture clothing, realizing her design aesthetic in jewellery, handbags, and fragrance. Her signature scent, Chanel No. 5, has become an iconic product. She is the only fashion designer listed on Time magazine's list of the 100 most influential people of the 20th century. Chanel herself designed her famed interlocked-CC monogram, meaning Coco Chanel, using it since the 1920s.:211   Chanel's social connections encouraged a conservative personal outlook. Rumors arose about Chanel's activities during the German occupation of France during World War II, and she was criticized for being too close to the German occupiers: One of Chanel's liaisons was with a German diplomat, Baron (Freiherr) Hans Günther von Dincklage . After the war, Chanel was interrogated about her relationship with von Dincklage, but she was not charged as a collaborator. After several post-war years in Switzerland, she returned to Paris and revived her fashion house. In 2011, Hal Vaughan published a book about Chanel based on newly declassified documents, revealing that she had collaborated with German intelligence activities. One plan in late-1943 was for her to carry an SS peace overture to British Prime Minister Winston Churchill to end the war.:160-164
Gabriel's Inferno is an erotic romance novel by an anonymous Canadian author under the pen name Sylvain Reynard. The story was first published in novel format in 2011 by Omnific Publishing, with further publishing rights to the series being purchased by Berkley Books. The work was first published on 4 September 2012, along with the second book in the series, Gabriel's Rapture.   The series has been compared to Fifty Shades of Grey because both originated as Twilight fan fiction, with the International Business Times reporting that Gabriel's Inferno differs in that it bears "few similarities to the story that inspired it". The novel was originally published online as a Twilight fan fiction entitled The University of Edward Masen (Edward Masen being Edward Cullen's human name) under the pen name of Sebastien Robichaud. Gabriel's Inferno and its sequels appeared on The New York Times Best Seller list.
Gail Carriger is the pen name of Tofa Borregaard, an American archaeologist and author of steampunk fiction. She was born in Bolinas, an unincorporated community in Marin County, California, and attended high school at Marin Academy. She received her undergraduate degree from Oberlin College, a masters of science in archaeological materials at England's University of Nottingham in 2000, and a master of arts in anthropology (with a focus on archaeology) at the University of California Santa Cruz in 2008.
Gail Carson Levine (born September 17, 1947) is an American author of young adult books. Her first novel, Ella Enchanted, received a Newbery Honor in 1998.
Galileo Galilei (Italian: [ɡaliˈlɛːo ɡaliˈlɛi]; 15 February 1564 – 8 January 1642) was an Italian astronomer, physicist and engineer, sometimes described as a polymath. Galileo has been called the "father of observational astronomy", the "father of modern physics", the "father of the scientific method", and the "father of modern science".   Galileo studied speed and velocity, gravity and free fall, the principle of relativity, inertia, projectile motion and also worked in applied science and technology, describing the properties of pendulums and "hydrostatic balances", inventing the thermoscope and various military compasses, and using the telescope for scientific observations of celestial objects. His contributions to observational astronomy include the telescopic confirmation of the phases of Venus, the observation of the four largest satellites of Jupiter, the observation of Saturn and the analysis of sunspots.   Galileo's championing of heliocentrism and Copernicanism was controversial during his lifetime, when most subscribed to either geocentrism or the Tychonic system. He met with opposition from astronomers, who doubted heliocentrism because of the absence of an observed stellar parallax. The matter was investigated by the Roman Inquisition in 1615, which concluded that heliocentrism was "foolish and absurd in philosophy, and formally heretical since it explicitly contradicts in many places the sense of Holy Scripture." Galileo later defended his views in Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems (1632), which appeared to attack Pope Urban VIII and thus alienated him and the Jesuits, who had both supported Galileo up until this point. He was tried by the Inquisition, found "vehemently suspect of heresy", and forced to recant. He spent the rest of his life under house arrest. While under house arrest, he wrote Two New Sciences, in which he summarized work he had done some forty years earlier on the two sciences now called kinematics and strength of materials.
Garth Risk Hallberg (born November 1978) is an American author. His debut novel is City on Fire.   He was born outside Baton Rouge, Louisiana and grew up in Greenville, North Carolina. He received a degree in English from Washington University in St. Louis in 2001 where he met Elise White, his future wife. She graduated from Washington University in 2000 with degrees in English and African-American studies. Both parents were teachers; his father was also a writer. They divorced when Hallberg was 13.   He currently resides in New York City. He published his first novel, City on Fire in 2015, to criticism and acclaim. His work has also been published in The Millions.  Bibliography   - A Field Guide to the North American Family (2007) - City on Fire (2015) References    1. ^ a b Brian Appleyard, "Manhattan Project", The Age, "Good Weekend", pp. 20-22  2. ^ https://source.wustl.edu/2017/02/no-more-playing-it-safe/  3. ^ http://www.vulture.com/2015/10/unprecedented-garth-risk-hallberg.html  4. ^ Kakutani, Michiko (5 October 2015). "Review: 'City on Fire,' Garth Risk Hallberg's Novel of New York in the Bad Old Days". The New York Times. Retrieved 7 October 2015.  5. ^ Doherty, Brian (5 October 2015). "The Unprecedented Garth Risk Hallberg". Vulture. Retrieved 7 October 2015.  6. ^ Menand, Louis (12 October 2015). "Review of "City on Fire"". The New Yorker. Retrieved 7 October 2015.  7. ^ "Articles by Garth Risk Hallberg at The Millions". The Millions. Retrieved 7 October 2015.        This American novelist article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
Garth Stein is an American author and film producer from Seattle, Washington. Widely known as the author of the novel The Art of Racing in the Rain, Stein is also a documentary film maker, playwright, teacher, and amateur racer.
Gary Shteyngart (born Igor Semyonovich Shteyngart; July 5, 1972) is an American writer born in Leningrad, USSR. Much of his work is satirical.
Gaston Bachelard (/ˌbæʃəˈlɑːr/ ; French: [baʃlaʁ]; 27 June 1884 – 16 October 1962) was a French philosopher. He made contributions in the fields of poetics and the philosophy of science. To the latter he introduced the concepts of epistemological obstacle and epistemological break (obstacle épistémologique and rupture épistémologique). He influenced many subsequent French philosophers, among them Michel Foucault, Louis Althusser, Dominique Lecourt and Jacques Derrida, as well as the sociologist Pierre Bourdieu.
Gautama Buddha (c. 563/480 – c. 483/400 BCE), also known as Siddhārtha Gautama (सिद्धार्थ गौतम) in Sanskrit or Siddhāttha Gotama (शिद्धत्थ गोतम) in Pali , Shakyamuni (i.e. "Sage of the Shakyas") Buddha, or simply the Buddha, after the title of Buddha, was a monk (śramaṇa), mendicant, and sage, on whose teachings Buddhism was founded. He is believed to have lived and taught mostly in the northeastern part of ancient India sometime between the 6th and 4th centuries BCE.   Gautama taught a Middle Way between sensual indulgence and the severe asceticism found in the śramaṇa movement common in his region. He later taught throughout other regions of eastern India such as Magadha and Kosala.   Gautama is the primary figure in Buddhism. He is believed by Buddhists to be an enlightened teacher who attained full Buddhahood and shared his insights to help sentient beings end rebirth and suffering. Accounts of his life, discourses and monastic rules are believed by Buddhists to have been summarised after his death and memorized by his followers. Various collections of teachings attributed to him were passed down by oral tradition and first committed to writing about 400 years later.
Gayle Forman (born June 5, 1970) is an American young adult fiction author, best known for her novel If I Stay, which topped the New York Times best sellers list of Young Adult Fiction and was made into a film of the same name.
Georg Christoph Lichtenberg (1 July 1742 – 24 February 1799) was a German physicist, satirist, and Anglophile. As a scientist, he was the first to hold a professorship explicitly dedicated to experimental physics in Germany. He is remembered for his posthumously published notebooks, which he himself called Sudelbücher, a description modelled on the English bookkeeping term "scrapbooks", and for his discovery of tree-like electrical discharge patterns now called Lichtenberg figures.
George Bernard Shaw (26 July 1856 –  2 November 1950), known at his insistence simply as Bernard Shaw, was an Irish playwright, critic, polemicist and political activist. His influence on Western theatre, culture and politics extended from the 1880s to his death and beyond. He wrote more than sixty plays, including major works such as Man and Superman (1902), Pygmalion (1912) and Saint Joan (1923). With a range incorporating both contemporary satire and historical allegory, Shaw became the leading dramatist of his generation, and in 1925 was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature.   Born in Dublin, Shaw moved to London in 1876, where he struggled to establish himself as a writer and novelist, and embarked on a rigorous process of self-education. By the mid-1880s he had become a respected theatre and music critic. Following a political awakening, he joined the gradualist Fabian Society and became its most prominent pamphleteer. Shaw had been writing plays for years before his first public success, Arms and the Man in 1894. Influenced by Henrik Ibsen, he sought to introduce a new realism into English-language drama, using his plays as vehicles to disseminate his political, social and religious ideas. By the early twentieth century his reputation as a dramatist was secured with a series of critical and popular successes that included Major Barbara, The Doctor's Dilemma and Caesar and Cleopatra.   Shaw's expressed views were often contentious; he promoted eugenics and alphabet reform, and opposed vaccination and organised religion. He courted unpopularity by denouncing both sides in the First World War as equally culpable, and although not a republican, castigated British policy on Ireland in the postwar period. These stances had no lasting effect on his standing or productivity as a dramatist; the inter-war years saw a series of often ambitious plays, which achieved varying degrees of popular success. In 1938 he provided the screenplay for a filmed version of Pygmalion for which he received an Academy Award. His appetite for politics and controversy remained undiminished; by the late 1920s he had largely renounced Fabian Society gradualism and often wrote and spoke favourably of dictatorships of the right and left—he expressed admiration for both Mussolini and Stalin. In the final decade of his life he made fewer public statements, but continued to write prolifically until shortly before his death, aged ninety-four, having refused all state honours, including the Order of Merit in 1946.   Since Shaw's death scholarly and critical opinion has varied about his works, but he has regularly been rated as second only to Shakespeare among British dramatists; analysts recognise his extensive influence on generations of English-language playwrights. The word Shavian has entered the language as encapsulating Shaw's ideas and his means of expressing them.
George Gordon Byron, 6th Baron Byron FRS (22 January 1788 – 19 April 1824), known simply as Lord Byron, was a British poet, peer, politician, and leading figure in the Romantic movement. He is regarded as one of the greatest British poets and remains widely read and influential. Among his best-known works are the lengthy narrative poems Don Juan and Childe Harold's Pilgrimage: many of his shorter lyrics in Hebrew Melodies also became popular.   He travelled extensively across Europe, especially in Italy, where he lived for seven years in the cities of Venice, Ravenna and Pisa. During his stay in Italy he frequently visited his friend and fellow poet Percy Bysshe Shelley. Later in life Byron joined the Greek War of Independence fighting the Ottoman Empire, for which Greeks revere him as a national hero. He died in 1824 at the age of 36 from a fever contracted in Missolonghi.   Often described as the most flamboyant and notorious of the major Romantics, Byron was both celebrated and castigated in his life for his aristocratic excesses, which included huge debts, numerous love affairs with both men and women, as well as rumours of a scandalous liaison with his half-sister. One of his lovers, Lady Caroline Lamb, summed him up in the famous phrase "mad, bad, and dangerous to know". His only legitimate child, Ada Lovelace, is regarded as the first computer programmer based on her notes for Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine. Byron's illegitimate children include Allegra Byron, who died in childhood, and possibly Elizabeth Medora Leigh.
George Herbert (3 April 1593 – 1 March 1633) was a Welsh-born poet, orator, and priest of the Church of England. His poetry is associated with the writings of the metaphysical poets, and he is recognised as "one of the foremost British devotional lyricists." He was born into an artistic and wealthy family and largely raised in England. He received a good education that led to his admission to Trinity College, Cambridge in 1609. He went there with the intention of becoming a priest, but he became the University's Public Orator and attracted the attention of King James I. He served in the Parliament of England in 1624 and briefly in 1625.   After the death of King James, Herbert renewed his interest in ordination. He gave up his secular ambitions in his mid-thirties and took holy orders in the Church of England, spending the rest of his life as the rector of the little parish of St Andrews Church, Lower Bemerton, Salisbury. He was noted for unfailing care for his parishioners, bringing the sacraments to them when they were ill and providing food and clothing for those in need. Henry Vaughan called him "a most glorious saint and seer". He was never a healthy man and died of consumption at age 39.
George MacDonald (10 December 1824 – 18 September 1905) was a Scottish author, poet and Christian minister. He was a pioneering figure in the field of fantasy literature and the mentor of fellow writer Lewis Carroll. His writings have been cited as a major literary influence by many notable authors, including W. H. Auden, Lloyd Alexander, C. S. Lewis, J. R. R. Tolkien, Walter de la Mare, E. Nesbit, and Madeleine L'Engle. C. S. Lewis wrote that he regarded MacDonald as his "master": "Picking up a copy of Phantastes one day at a train-station bookstall, I began to read. A few hours later", said Lewis, "I knew that I had crossed a great frontier." G. K. Chesterton cited The Princess and the Goblin as a book that had "made a difference to my whole existence".   Elizabeth Yates wrote of Sir Gibbie, "It moved me the way books did when, as a child, the great gates of literature began to open and first encounters with noble thoughts and utterances were unspeakably thrilling."   Even Mark Twain, who initially disliked MacDonald, became friends with him, and there is some evidence that Twain was influenced by him. The Christian author Oswald Chambers wrote in his "Christian Disciplines" that "it is a striking indication of the trend and shallowness of the modern reading public that George MacDonald's books have been so neglected".   In addition to his fairy tales, MacDonald wrote several works on Christian apologetics.
George Saunders (born December 2, 1958) is an American writer of short stories, essays, novellas, children's books, and novels. His writing has appeared in The New Yorker, Harper's, McSweeney's, and GQ. He also contributed a weekly column, American Psyche, to the weekend magazine of The Guardian between 2006 and 2008.   A professor at Syracuse University, Saunders won the National Magazine Award for fiction in 1994, 1996, 2000, and 2004, and second prize in the O. Henry Awards in 1997. His first story collection, CivilWarLand in Bad Decline, was a finalist for the 1996 PEN/Hemingway Award. In 2006 Saunders received a MacArthur Fellowship. In 2006 he won the World Fantasy Award for his short story "CommComm".   His story collection In Persuasion Nation was a finalist for the Story Prize in 2007. In 2013, he won the PEN/Malamud Award and was a finalist for the National Book Award. Saunders's Tenth of December: Stories won the 2013 Story Prize for short-story collections and the inaugural (2014) Folio Prize. His novel Lincoln in the Bardo (Bloomsbury Publishing) won the 2017 Man Booker Prize.
Georgette Heyer (/ˈheɪ.ər/; 16 August 1902 – 4 July 1974) was an English historical romance and detective fiction novelist. Her writing career began in 1921, when she turned a story for her younger brother into the novel The Black Moth. In 1925 Heyer married George Ronald Rougier, a mining engineer. The couple spent several years living in Tanganyika Territory and Macedonia before returning to England in 1929. After her novel These Old Shades became popular despite its release during the General Strike, Heyer determined that publicity was not necessary for good sales. For the rest of her life, she refused to grant interviews, telling a friend: "My private life concerns no one but myself and my family."   Heyer essentially established the historical romance genre and its subgenre Regency romance. Her Regencies were inspired by Jane Austen, but unlike Austen, who wrote about and for the times in which she lived, Heyer was forced to include copious information about the period so that her readers would understand the setting. To ensure accuracy, Heyer collected reference works and kept detailed notes on all aspects of Regency life. While some critics thought the novels were too detailed, others considered the level of detail to be Heyer's greatest asset. Her meticulous nature was also evident in her historical novels; Heyer even recreated William the Conqueror's crossing into England for her novel The Conqueror.   Beginning in 1932, Heyer released one romance novel and one thriller each year. Her husband often provided basic outlines for the plots of her thrillers, leaving Heyer to develop character relationships and dialogue so as to bring the story to life. Although many critics describe Heyer's detective novels as unoriginal, others such as Nancy Wingate praise them "for their wit and comedy as well as for their well-woven plots".   Her success was sometimes clouded by problems with tax inspectors and alleged plagiarists. Heyer chose not to file lawsuits against the suspected literary thieves, but tried multiple ways of minimizing her tax liability. Forced to put aside the works she called her "magnum opus" (a trilogy covering the House of Lancaster) to write more commercially successful works, Heyer eventually created a limited liability company to administer the rights to her novels. She was accused several times of providing an overly large salary for herself, and in 1966 she sold the company and the rights to seventeen of her novels to Booker-McConnell. Heyer continued writing until her death in July 1974. At that time, 48 of her novels were still in print; her last book, My Lord John, was published posthumously.
Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (/ˈheɪɡəl/; German: [ˈɡeːɔɐ̯k ˈvɪlhɛlm ˈfʁiːtʁɪç ˈheːɡl̩]; August 27, 1770 – November 14, 1831) was a German philosopher and an important figure of German idealism. He achieved wide recognition in his day and—while primarily influential within the continental tradition of philosophy—has become increasingly influential in the analytic tradition as well. Although Hegel remains a divisive figure, his canonical stature within Western philosophy is universally recognized.   Hegel's principal achievement was his development of a distinctive articulation of idealism, sometimes termed absolute idealism, in which the dualisms of, for instance, mind and nature and subject and object are overcome. His philosophy of spirit conceptually integrates psychology, the state, history, art, religion and philosophy. His account of the master–slave dialectic has been highly influential, especially in 20th-century France. Of special importance is his concept of spirit (Geist, sometimes also translated as "mind") as the historical manifestation of the logical concept and the "sublation" (Aufhebung, integration without elimination or reduction) of seemingly contradictory or opposing factors: examples include the apparent opposition between nature and freedom and between immanence and transcendence. Hegel has been seen in the 20th century as the originator of the thesis, antithesis, synthesis triad, but as an explicit phrase it originated with Johann Gottlieb Fichte.   Hegel has influenced many thinkers and writers whose own positions vary widely. Karl Barth described Hegel as a "Protestant Aquinas" while Maurice Merleau-Ponty wrote that "all the great philosophical ideas of the past century—the philosophies of Marx and Nietzsche, phenomenology, German existentialism, and psychoanalysis—had their beginnings in Hegel."
Germany Kent (born Evelyn LaShawn Palmer on July 29, 1975) is an American print and television journalist, former beauty queen, author, actress, businesswoman, model, producer, activist and philanthropist.   Kent, also regarded as a social media etiquette expert, has been featured in multiple major news publications, including INC. Magazine, Fast Company, Bloomberg Business, The Examiner, and various others. She has made numerous media appearances, including segments on NPR, AOL.com, in addition to appearing on Scripps' syndicated magazine show The List, ABC, the CW, FOX, CBS and NBC.   Kent has authored ten nonfiction books (The Hope Handbook Series), best-selling written work (The Hope Handbook) and her most recent multiple award-winning book (You Are What You Tweet), about social media ethics, which maintains a 4.7 rating on Goodreads.
Gertrude Stein (February 3, 1874 – July 27, 1946) was an American novelist, poet, playwright, and art collector. Born in the Allegheny West neighborhood of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and raised in Oakland, California, Stein moved to Paris in 1903, and made France her home for the remainder of her life. She hosted a Paris salon, where the leading figures of modernism in literature and art, such as Pablo Picasso, Ernest Hemingway, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Sinclair Lewis, Ezra Pound, Sherwood Anderson and Henri Matisse, would meet.   In 1933, Stein published a quasi-memoir of her Paris years, The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas, written in the voice of Alice B. Toklas, her life partner and an American-born member of the Parisian avant-garde. The book became a literary bestseller and vaulted Stein from the relative obscurity of the cult-literature scene into the limelight of mainstream attention. Two quotes from her works have become widely known: "Rose is a rose is a rose is a rose" and "there is no there there", with the latter often taken to be a reference to her childhood home of Oakland, California.   Her books include Q.E.D. (1903), about a lesbian romantic affair involving several of Stein's friends, Fernhurst, a fictional story about a love triangle, Three Lives (1905–06), and The Making of Americans (1902–1911). In Tender Buttons (1914), Stein commented on lesbian sexuality.   Her activities during World War II have been the subject of analysis and commentary. As a Jew living in Nazi-occupied France, Stein may have only been able to sustain her lifestyle as an art collector, and indeed to ensure her physical safety, through the protection of the powerful Vichy government official and Nazi collaborator Bernard Faÿ. After the war ended, Stein expressed admiration for another Nazi collaborator, Vichy leader Marshal Pétain. Some have argued that certain accounts of Stein's wartime activities have amounted to a "witch hunt".
Glenn Lee Beck (born February 10, 1964) is an American conservative political commentator, radio host and television producer. He is the CEO, founder, and owner of Mercury Radio Arts, the parent company of his television and radio network TheBlaze. A conservative, he hosts the Glenn Beck Radio Program, a popular talk-radio show nationally syndicated on Premiere Radio Networks. Beck also hosts the Glenn Beck television program, which ran from January 2006 to October 2008 on HLN, from January 2009 to June 2011 on the Fox News Channel and currently airs on TheBlaze. Beck has authored six New York Times–bestselling books.   In April 2011, Beck announced that he would "transition off of his daily program" on Fox News, but would continue to team with Fox. Beck's last daily show on the network was June 30, 2011. In 2012, The Hollywood Reporter named Beck on its Digital Power Fifty list. Beck launched TheBlaze in 2011 after leaving Fox News. He currently hosts an hour-long afternoon program, The Glenn Beck Program, on weekdays, and a three-hour morning radio show; both are broadcast on TheBlaze. Beck is also the producer of For the Record on TheBlaze.   Beck's supporters praise him as a constitutional stalwart promoting limited government, low taxes, gun rights, free speech and defending traditional American values, while his critics contend he promotes conspiracy theories and employs incendiary rhetoric for ratings.
Gloria Jean Watkins (born September 25, 1952), better known by her pen name bell hooks, is an American author, professor, feminist, and social activist. The name "bell hooks" is derived from that of her maternal great-grandmother, Bell Blair Hooks.   The focus of hooks' writing has been the intersectionality of race, capitalism, and gender, and what she describes as their ability to produce and perpetuate systems of oppression and class domination. She has published over 30 books and numerous scholarly articles, appeared in documentary films, and participated in public lectures. She has addressed race, class, and gender in education, art, history, sexuality, mass media, and feminism.   In 2014, she founded the bell hooks Institute at Berea College in Berea, Kentucky.
Grant Morrison, MBE (born 31 January 1960) is a Scottish comic book writer and playwright. He is known for his nonlinear narratives and countercultural leanings in his runs on titles including DC Comics's Animal Man, Batman, JLA, Action Comics, All-Star Superman, Vertigo's The Invisibles, and Fleetway's 2000 AD. He is the current editor-in-chief of Heavy Metal. He is also the co-creator of the Syfy TV series Happy! starring Christopher Meloni and Patton Oswalt.
Gregory Behrendt (born July 21, 1963) is an American comedian and author. His work as a script consultant to the HBO sitcom Sex and the City, starring Sarah Jessica Parker, paved the way for co-authoring of the New York Times bestseller He's Just Not That into You (2004), later adapted into a film by the same name. Apart from that he also hosted two short-lived television shows, The Greg Behrendt Show (2006) and Greg Behrendt's Wake Up Call (2009).
Gregory David Roberts (born Gregory John Peter Smith; 21 June 1952) is an Australian author best known for his novel Shantaram. He is a former heroin addict and convicted bank robber who escaped from Pentridge Prison in 1980 and fled to India, where he lived for ten years.
Gregory Maguire (born June 9, 1954) is an American novelist. He is the author of Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West, Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister, and several dozen other novels for adults and children. Many of Maguire's adult novels are inspired by classic children's stories; Wicked transforms the Wicked Witch of the West from L. Frank Baum's The Wonderful Wizard of Oz and its 1939 film adaptation into the misunderstood green-skinned Elphaba Thropp. The blockbuster Broadway musical Wicked, at its height running nine companies simultaneously around the world, was inspired by Maguire's first grown-up novel. The musical is the ninth-longest-running play currently staged in London's West End (as of September 2015), and the sixth longest-running show in Broadway history.
Gustave Flaubert (French: [ɡystav flobɛʁ]; 12 December 1821 – 8 May 1880) was a French novelist. Highly influential, he has been considered the leading exponent of literary realism in his country. He is known especially for his debut novel Madame Bovary (1857), his Correspondence, and his scrupulous devotion to his style and aesthetics. The celebrated short story writer Guy de Maupassant was a protégé of Flaubert.
Hakuin Ekaku (白隠 慧鶴, January 19, 1686 - January 18, 1768) was one of the most influential figures in Japanese Zen Buddhism. He is regarded as the reviver of the Rinzai school from a moribund period of stagnation, refocusing it on its traditionally rigorous training methods integrating meditation and koan practice.
Hancock, Curtis L. (May 1995). "The Influence of Plotinus on Berson's Critique of Empirical Science". In R. Baine Harris. Neoplatonism and Contemporary Thought. Congress of the International Society for Neoplatonic Studies held in May 1995 at Vanderbilt University. 10. International Society for Neoplatonic Studies. Albany: State University of New York Press. p. 139ff. ISBN 978-0-7914-5275-2. Retrieved 10 May 2010. That the philosophy of Henri Bergson is significantly influenced by the doctrines of Plotinus is indicated by the many years Bergson devoted to teaching Plotinus and the many parallels in their respective philosophies. This influence has been discussed at some length by Bergson's contemporaries, such as Emile Bréhier and Rose-Marie Rossé-Bastide. ... ^ R. William Rauch, Politics and Belief in Contemporary France: Emmanuel Mounier and Christian Democracy, 1932–1950, Springer, 2012, p. 67.  ^ Merquior, J.G. (1987). Foucault (Fontana Modern Masters series), University of California Press, ISBN 0-520-06062-8.  ^  "The Nobel prize in Literature". Retrieved 15 November 2010.  ^ Robert C. Grogin, The Bergsonian Controversy in France, 1900-1914, Univ of Calgary Press (May 1988), ISBN 0919813305  ^ Gelber, Nathan Michael (1 January 2007). "Bergson". Encyclopaedia Judaica. Retrieved 7 December 2015. (Subscription required (help)).  ^ Dynner, Glenn (2008). Men of Silk: The Hasidic Conquest of Polish Jewish Society. Oxford University Press. pp. 104–105. ISBN 019538265X.  ^ Henri Bergson. 2014. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Retrieved 13 August 2014, from http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/61856/Henri-Bergson  ^ "Z ziemi polskiej do Nobla" [From the Polish lands to the Nobel Prize]. Wprost (in Polish). Warsaw: Agencja Wydawniczo-Reklamowa Wprost. 4 January 2008. Retrieved 10 May 2010. Polskie korzenie ma Henri Bergson, jeden z najwybitniejszych pisarzy, fizyk i filozof francuski żydowskiego pochodzenia. Jego ojcem był Michał Bergson z Warszawy, prawnuk Szmula Jakubowicza Sonnenberga, zwanego Zbytkowerem (1756–1801), żydowskiego kupca i bankiera. [Translation: Henri Bergson, one of the greatest French writers, physicists and philosophers of Jewish ancestry, had Polish roots. His father was Michael Bergson from Warsaw, the great-grandson of Szmul Jakubowicz Sonnenberg – known as Zbytkower – (1756–1801), a Jewish merchant and banker.]  ^  Testament starozakonnego Berka Szmula Sonnenberga z 1818 roku Archived 28 September 2011 at the Wayback Machine.  ^ Suzanne Guerlac, Thinking in Time: An Introduction to Henri Bergson, Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 2007, p. 9.  ^ Lawlor, Leonard and Moulard Leonard, Valentine, "Henri Bergson", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2016 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2016/entries/bergson/>  ^ Henri Hude, Bergson, Paris, Editions Universitaires, 1990, 2 volumes, quoted by Anne Fagot-Largeau in her 21 December 2006 course at the College of France  ^ "Nouvelles Annales de Mathématiques". 2 (17). Paris. 1878: 268. Retrieved 15 March 2018.  ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u Anne Fagot-Largeau, 21 December 2006 course Archived 6 February 2009 at the Wayback Machine. at the College of France (audio file of the course)  ^ Henri Bergson: Key Writings, ed. Keith Ansell Pearson and John Mullarkey. London: Continuum, 2002, p. ix.  ^ p. 39  ^ Seth Benedict Graham A CULTURAL ANALYSIS OF THE RUSSO-SOVIET ANEKDOT, 2003, p. 2  ^ "Florence Meyer Blumenthal". Jewish Women's Archive, Michele Siegel.  ^  Bergson and his philosophy Chapter 1: Life of Bergson  ^  Bergson, Henri (1911). La perception du changement; conférences faites à l'Université d'Oxford les 26 et 27 mai 1911 [The perception of change: lectures delivered at the University of Oxford on 26 and 27 May 1911] (in French). Oxford: Clarendon. p. 37.  ^  Reberioux, M. (January–March 1964). "La gauche socialiste française: La Guerre Sociale et Le Mouvement Socialiste face au problème colonial" [French right-wing socialism: La Guerre Sociale and Le Mouvement Socialiste in the face of the colonial problem]. Le Mouvement social (in French). Editions l'Atelier/Association Le Mouvement Social (46): 91–103. JSTOR 3777267. ... deux organes, d'ailleurs si dissembables, ou s'exprime l'extrême-gauche du courant socialiste français: le Mouvement socialiste d'Hubert Lagardelle et la Guerre sociale de Gustave Hervé. Jeune publications – le Mouvement socialiste est fondé en janvier 1899, la Guerre sociale en décembre 1906 –, dirigées par de jeunes équipes qui faisaient profession de rejeter le chauvinisme, d'être attentives au nouveau et de ne pas reculer devant les prises de position les plus véhémentes, ...  ^  King Albert's book: a tribute to the Belgian king and people from representative men and women throughout the world. London: The Daily Telegraph. 1914. p. 187.  ^ See Chapter III of The Creative Evolution  ^ Canales J., The Physicist and the Philosopher: Einstein, Bergson and the Debate That Changed Our Understanding of Time, Princeton, Princeton Press, 2015.  ^ Minutes of the meeting:Séance du 6 Avril 1922  ^ Signs, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, trans. Richard C. McCleary, Northwestern Univ. Press, 1964.  ^ On the relation between Einstein and Bergson in this Committee, see Einstein, Bergson and the Experiment that Failed: Intellectual Cooperation at the League of Nations. On the involvement of Bergson (and Einstein) in the Committee in general, see Grandjean, Martin (2018). Les réseaux de la coopération intellectuelle. La Société des Nations comme actrice des échanges scientifiques et culturels dans l'entre-deux-guerres [The Networks of Intellectual Cooperation. The League of Nations as an Actor of the Scientific and Cultural Exchanges in the Inter-War Period] (in French). Lausanne: Université de Lausanne..  ^ "Book of Members, 1780–2010: Chapter B" (PDF). American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Retrieved 16 June 2011.  ^ Quoted in: Zolli, Eugenio (2008) . Before the Dawn. Ignatius Press. p. 89. ISBN 978-1-58617-287-9.  ^ "Henri Bergson – Philosopher – Biography". www.egs.edu. 3 January 1941. Archived from the original on 27 May 2010. Retrieved 17 February 2010.  ^ Bergson explores these topics in Time and Free Will: An Essay on the Immediate Data of Consciousness, in Matter and Memory, in Creative Evolution, and in The Creative Mind: An Introduction to Metaphysics.  ^ Elie During, « Fantômes de problèmes », published by the Centre International d'Etudes de la Philosophie Française Contemporaine (short version first published in Le magazine littéraire, n°386, April 2000 (issue dedicated to Bergson)  ^ The Creative Mind: An Introduction to Metaphysics, pages 11 to 14  ^ a b Henri Bergson, The Creative Mind: An Introduction to Metaphysics, pages 11 to 13.  ^ a b The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, "Henri Bergson": "'Time and Free Will' has to be seen as an attack on Kant, for whom freedom belongs to a realm outside of space and time."  ^ Henri Bergson, Time and Free Will: An Essay on the Immediate Data of Consciousness, Author's Preface.  ^ The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, "Henri Bergson": "For Bergson – and perhaps this is his greatest insight – freedom is mobility."  ^ Henri Bergson, The Creative Mind: An Introduction to Metaphysics, pages 160 to 161. For a Whiteheadian use of Bergsonian intuition, see Michel Weber's Whitehead’s Pancreativism. The Basics. Foreword by Nicholas Rescher, Frankfurt / Paris, Ontos Verlag, 2006.  ^ L'Évolution créatrice, pp. 42–44; pp. 226–227  ^ L'Évolution créatrice, pp. 42–43  ^ Henri Bergson's theory of laughter. A brief summary.  ^ Suzanne Guerlac, Thinking in Time: An Introduction to Henri Bergson, Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 2006, p. 10  ^ Cf. Ronny Desmet and Michel Weber (edited by), Whitehead. The Algebra of Metaphysics. Applied Process Metaphysics Summer Institute Memorandum, Louvain-la-Neuve, Éditions Chromatika, 2010 & Michel Weber, Whitehead’s Pancreativism. The Basics. Foreword by Nicholas Rescher, Frankfurt / Paris, ontos verlag, 2006.  ^ Russell, B.; "The Philosophy of Bergson," The Monist 1912 vol. 22 pp. 321–347  ^ entitled Henri Bergson.  ^ transl. 1988.  ^ Dermot Moran, Introduction to Phenomenology, 2000, pp. 322 and 393.  ^  Merleau-Ponty, Maurice (2001). Bjelland, Andrew G.; Burke, Patrick, eds. The incarnate subject : Malebranche, Biran, and Bergson on the union of body and soul. preface by Jacques Taminiaux ; translation by Paul B. Milan. Amherst, N.Y.: Humanity Books. p. 152. ISBN 1-57392-915-8.  ^ Peter Bien, Three Generations of Greek Writers, Published by Efstathiadis Group, Athens, 1983  ^ see his short book Russell, Bertrand (1977). The philosophy of Bergson. Folcroft, Pa.: Folcroft Library Editions. p. 36. ISBN 0-8414-7371-4.on the subject).  ^ see his study on the author in "Winds of Doctrine"  ^ see Being and Time, esp. sections 5, 10, and 82.  ^ see his two books on the subject  ^ Wyndham Lewis, Time and Western Man (1927), ed. Paul Edwards, Santa Rosa, CA: Black Sparrow, 1993.  ^ "The Irrational Element in Poetry." 1936. Opus Posthumous. 1957. Ed. Milton J. Bates. New York: Random House, 1990.  ^ see his book Insights and Illusions of Philosophy 1972  ^ see "Against Epistemology"  ^ see "Hegel and Marxism"  ^ see his early book Imagination – although Sartre also appropriated himself Bergsonian thesis on novelty as pure creation – see Situations I Gallimard 1947, p. 314  ^ see the latter's two books on the subject: Le Bergsonisme, une Mystification Philosophique and La fin d'une parade philosophique: le Bergsonisme both of which had a tremendous effect on French existential phenomenology  ^ see Bergson and Symbolism  ^ Suzanne Guerlac, Thinking in Time: An Introduction to Henri Bergson, Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 2006, p. 175.  ^ Leonard Lawlor and Valentine Moulard (12 July 2011) [18 May 2004], "The revitalization of Bergsonism", Henri Bergson, Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, retrieved 20 August 2012  ^ K Mackenzie Brown. "Hindu perspectives on evolution: Darwin, Dharma, and Design". Routledge, Jan 2012. Page 164-166  ^ KN Aiyer. "Professor Bergson and the Hindu Vedanta". Vasanta Press. 1910. Pages 36 – 37.  ^ Marie Tudor Garland. "Hindu Mind Training". Longmans, Green and Company, 1917. Page 20.  ^ Nalini Kanta Brahma. "Philosophy of Hindu Sadhana". PHI Learning Private Ltd 2008.  ^ Hope K Fitz. "Intuition: Its nature and uses in human experience." Motilal Banarsidass publishers 2000. Pages 22–30.  Further reading   - Ansell-Pearson, Keith. Philosophy and the Adventure of the Virtual: Bergson and the Time of Life. London: Routledge, 2002. - Bachelard, Gaston. The Dialectic of Duration. Trans. Mary Mcallester Jones. Manchester: Clinamen Press, 2000. - Bianco, Giuseppe. Après Bergson. Portrait de groupe avec philosophe. Paris, PUF, 2015. - Canales, Jimena. The Physicist and the Philosopher: Einstein, Bergson and the Debate That Changed Our Understanding of Time. Princeton, Princeton Press, 2015. - Deleuze, Gilles. Bergsonism. Trans. Hugh Tomlinson and Barbara Habberjam. New York: Zone Books, 1988. - Deleuze, Gilles. Cinema 1: The Movement-Image. Trans. Hugh Tomlinson and Barbara Habberjam. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1986. - Deleuze, Gilles. Cinema 2: The Time-Image. Trans. Hugh Tomlinson and Robert Galeta. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1989. - Fradet, Pierre-Alexandre, Derrida-Bergson. Sur l'immédiateté, Hermann, Paris, coll. "Hermann Philosophie", 2014. ISBN 978-2-7056-8831-8 - Grosz, Elizabeth. The Nick of Time: Politics, Evolution, and the Untimely. Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 2004. - Guerlac, Suzanne. Thinking in Time: An Introduction to Henri Bergson. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 2006. - Horkheimer, Max. "On Bergson's Metaphysics of Time." Trans. Peter Thomas, revised by Stewart Martin. Radical Philosophy 131 (2005) 9–19. - James, William. "Bergson and his Critique of Intellectualism." In A Pluralistic Universe. Lincoln, NE: University of Nebraska Press, 1996. 223–74. - Lawlor, Leonard. The Challenge of Bergsonism: Phenomenology, Ontology, Ethics. London: Continuum Press, 2003. - Merleau-Ponty, Maurice. "Bergson." In In Praise of Philosophy and Other Essays. Trans. John O'Neill. Evanston, IL: Northwestern University Press, 1963. 9–32. - Merleau-Ponty, Maurice. "Bergson in the Making." In Signs. Trans. Richard McCleary. Evanston, IL: Northwestern University Press, 1964. 182–91. - Mullarkey, John. "Bergson and Philosophy." Edinburgh University Press, 1999. - Mullarkey, John, ed. The New Bergson. Manchester and New York: Manchester University Press, 1999. - Russell, Bertrand "The Philosophy of Bergson". The Monist 22 (1912): 321–47. External links  Henri Bergsonat Wikipedia's sister projects    - Definitions from Wiktionary  - Media from Wikimedia Commons  - News from Wikinews  - Quotations from Wikiquote  - Texts from Wikisource  - Textbooks from Wikibooks  - Resources from Wikiversity     - Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy entry - Henri Bergson's theory of laughter. A brief summary. - « 'A History of Problems' : Bergson and the French Epistemological Tradition », by Elie During - M. C. Sanchez Rey « The Bergsonian Philosophy of the Intelligence » translation - Newspaper clippings about Henri Bergson in the 20th Century Press Archives of the German National Library of Economics (ZBW) Works online   - Works by Henri Bergson at Project Gutenberg - Works by or about Henri Bergson at Internet Archive - Works by Henri Bergson at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks)  - Works by Henri Bergson at Open Library - Works by Henri Bergson in French at "La Philosophie" - Complete works in French on the "Classiques des sciences sociales" website - L'Évolution créatrice (in the original French, 1907) 1911 English translation at the Wayback Machine (archived 23 April 2006) of Creative Evolution (html) multiple formats at Internet Archive - 1911 English translation at the Wayback Machine (archived 23 April 2006) of Creative Evolution (html) - multiple formats at Internet Archive - 1910 English translation of Time and Free Will at the Wayback Machine (archived 24 April 2006) (HTML) multiple formats at Internet Archive - multiple formats at Internet Archive - 1911 English translation of Matter and Memory at the Wayback Machine (archived 24 April 2006) (HTML) multiple formats at Internet Archive - multiple formats at Internet Archive
Hanya Yanagihara (born September 20, 1974) is an American novelist, editor, and travel writer. She grew up in Hawaii.
Harry S. Truman (May 8, 1884 – December 26, 1972) was the 33rd president of the United States (1945–1953), succeeding upon the death of Franklin D. Roosevelt after serving as vice president. He implemented the Marshall Plan to rebuild the economy of Western Europe, and established the Truman Doctrine and NATO.   Truman was elected as a U.S. senator in 1934 and gained national prominence as chairman of the Truman Committee aimed at waste and inefficiency in wartime contracts. Soon after succeeding to the presidency he became the only world leader to have used nuclear weapons in war. Truman's administration engaged in an internationalist foreign policy and renounced isolationism. He rallied his New Deal coalition during the 1948 presidential election and won a surprise victory that secured his own presidential term.   Truman oversaw the Berlin Airlift of 1948. When Communist North Korea invaded South Korea in 1950, he gained United Nations approval for the very large police action known as the Korean War. It saved South Korea but the Chinese intervened, driving back the UN/US forces and preventing a rollback of Communism in North Korea. On domestic issues, bills endorsed by Truman faced opposition from a conservative Congress, but his administration successfully guided the U.S. economy through the post-war economic challenges. In 1948 he submitted the first comprehensive civil rights legislation and issued Executive Orders to start racial integration in the military and federal agencies.   Allegations of corruption in the Truman administration became a central campaign issue in the 1952 presidential election and accounted for Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower's electoral victory. Truman's financially difficult retirement was marked by the founding of his presidential library and the publication of his memoirs. When he left office, Truman's presidency was criticized, but scholars rehabilitated his image in the 1960s.
Haruki Murakami (村上 春樹, Murakami Haruki, born January 12, 1949) is a Japanese writer. His books and stories have been bestsellers in Japan as well as internationally, with his work being translated into 50 languages and selling millions of copies outside his native country. His work has received numerous awards, including the World Fantasy Award, the Frank O'Connor International Short Story Award, the Franz Kafka Prize, and the Jerusalem Prize.   Murakami's most notable works include A Wild Sheep Chase (1982), Norwegian Wood (1987), The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle (1994–95), Kafka on the Shore (2002), and 1Q84 (2009–10). He has also translated into Japanese English works by writers including Raymond Carver and J. D. Salinger. His fiction, sometimes criticized by Japan's literary establishment as un-Japanese, was influenced by Western writers from Chandler to Vonnegut by way of Brautigan. It is frequently surrealistic and melancholic or fatalistic, marked by a Kafkaesque rendition of the "recurrent themes of alienation and loneliness" he weaves into his narratives. Steven Poole of The Guardian praised Murakami as "among the world's greatest living novelists" for his works and achievements.
Helen Adams Keller (June 27, 1880 – June 1, 1968) was an American author, political activist, and lecturer. She was the first deaf-blind person to earn a bachelor of arts degree. The story of Keller and her teacher, Anne Sullivan, was made famous by Keller's autobiography, The Story of My Life, and its adaptations for film and stage, The Miracle Worker. Her birthplace in West Tuscumbia, Alabama, is now a museum and sponsors an annual "Helen Keller Day". Her June 27 birthday is commemorated as Helen Keller Day in Pennsylvania and, in the centenary year of her birth, was recognized by a presidential proclamation from Jimmy Carter.   A prolific author, Keller was well-traveled and outspoken in her convictions. A member of the Socialist Party of America and the Industrial Workers of the World, she campaigned for women's suffrage, labor rights, socialism, antimilitarism, and other similar causes. She was inducted into the Alabama Women's Hall of Fame in 1971 and was one of twelve inaugural inductees to the Alabama Writers Hall of Fame on June 8, 2015.
Henri René Albert Guy de Maupassant (/ˈmoʊpəˌsɑːnt/; French: [ɡid(ə) mopasɑ̃]; 5 August 1850 – 6 July 1893) was a French writer, remembered as a master of the short story form, and as a representative of the naturalist school of writers, who depicted human lives and destinies and social forces in disillusioned and often pessimistic terms.   Maupassant was a protégé of Gustave Flaubert and his stories are characterized by economy of style and efficient, effortless dénouements (outcomes). Many are set during the Franco-Prussian War of the 1870s, describing the futility of war and the innocent civilians who, caught up in events beyond their control, are permanently changed by their experiences. He wrote some 300 short stories, six novels, three travel books, and one volume of verse. His first published story, "Boule de Suif" ("Ball of Suet", 1880), is often considered his masterpiece.
Henry Charles Bukowski (born Heinrich Karl Bukowski; August 16, 1920 – March 9, 1994) was a German-born American poet, novelist, and short story writer.   His writing was influenced by the social, cultural, and economic ambiance of his home city of Los Angeles. His work addresses the ordinary lives of poor Americans, the act of writing, alcohol, relationships with women, and the drudgery of work. Bukowski wrote thousands of poems, hundreds of short stories and six novels, eventually publishing over 60 books. The FBI kept a file on him as a result of his column, Notes of a Dirty Old Man, in the LA underground newspaper Open City.   Bukowski published extensively in small literary magazines and with small presses beginning in the early 1940s and continuing on through the early 1990s. As noted by one reviewer, "Bukowski continued to be, thanks to his antics and deliberate clownish performances, the king of the underground and the epitome of the littles in the ensuing decades, stressing his loyalty to those small press editors who had first championed his work and consolidating his presence in new ventures such as the New York Quarterly, Chiron Review, or Slipstream." Some of these works include his Poems Written Before Jumping Out of an 8 Story Window, published by his friend and fellow poet Charles Potts, and better known works such as Burning in Water, Drowning in Flame. These poems and stories were later republished by John Martin's Black Sparrow Press (now HarperCollins/Ecco Press) as collected volumes of his work.   In 1986 Time called Bukowski a "laureate of American lowlife". Regarding Bukowski's enduring popular appeal, Adam Kirsch of The New Yorker wrote, "the secret of Bukowski's appeal. . . [is that] he combines the confessional poet's promise of intimacy with the larger-than-life aplomb of a pulp-fiction hero."   Since his death in 1994, Bukowski has been the subject of a number of critical articles and books about both his life and writings, despite his work having received relatively little attention from academic critics during his lifetime.
Henry David Thoreau (see name pronunciation; July 12, 1817 – May 6, 1862) was an American essayist, poet, philosopher, abolitionist, naturalist, tax resister, development critic, surveyor, and historian. A leading transcendentalist, Thoreau is best known for his book Walden, a reflection upon simple living in natural surroundings, and his essay "Civil Disobedience" (originally published as "Resistance to Civil Government"), an argument for disobedience to an unjust state.   Thoreau's books, articles, essays, journals, and poetry amount to more than 20 volumes. Among his lasting contributions are his writings on natural history and philosophy, in which he anticipated the methods and findings of ecology and environmental history, two sources of modern-day environmentalism. His literary style interweaves close observation of nature, personal experience, pointed rhetoric, symbolic meanings, and historical lore, while displaying a poetic sensibility, philosophical austerity, and Yankee attention to practical detail. He was also deeply interested in the idea of survival in the face of hostile elements, historical change, and natural decay; at the same time he advocated abandoning waste and illusion in order to discover life's true essential needs.   He was a lifelong abolitionist, delivering lectures that attacked the Fugitive Slave Law while praising the writings of Wendell Phillips and defending the abolitionist John Brown. Thoreau's philosophy of civil disobedience later influenced the political thoughts and actions of such notable figures as Leo Tolstoy, Mahatma Gandhi, and Martin Luther King Jr.   Thoreau is sometimes referred to as an anarchist. Though "Civil Disobedience" seems to call for improving rather than abolishing government—"I ask for, not at once no government, but at once a better government"—the direction of this improvement contrarily points toward anarchism: "'That government is best which governs not at all;' and when men are prepared for it, that will be the kind of government which they will have."
Henry Ford (July 30, 1863 – April 7, 1947) was an American captain of industry and a business magnate, the founder of the Ford Motor Company, and the sponsor of the development of the assembly line technique of mass production.   Although Ford did not invent the automobile or the assembly line, he developed and manufactured the first automobile that many middle-class Americans could afford. In doing so, Ford converted the automobile from an expensive curiosity into a practical conveyance that would profoundly impact the landscape of the 20th century. His introduction of the Model T automobile revolutionized transportation and American industry. As the owner of the Ford Motor Company, he became one of the richest and best-known people in the world. He is credited with "Fordism": mass production of inexpensive goods coupled with high wages for workers. Ford had a global vision, with consumerism as the key to peace. His intense commitment to systematically lowering costs resulted in many technical and business innovations, including a franchise system that put dealerships throughout most of North America and in major cities on six continents. Ford left most of his vast wealth to the Ford Foundation and arranged for his family to control the company permanently.   Ford was also widely known for his pacifism during the first years of World War I, and for promoting antisemitic content, including The Protocols of the Elders of Zion through his newspaper The Dearborn Independent and the book The International Jew, having an influence on the development of Nazism and Adolf Hitler.
Henry Graham Greene OM CH (2 October 1904 – 3 April 1991), better known by his pen name Graham Greene, was an English novelist regarded by many as one of the greatest writers of the 20th century. Combining literary acclaim with widespread popularity, Greene acquired a reputation early in his lifetime as a major writer, both of serious Catholic novels, and of thrillers (or "entertainments" as he termed them). He was shortlisted, in 1966 and 1967, for the Nobel Prize for Literature. Through 67 years of writings, which included over 25 novels, he explored the ambivalent moral and political issues of the modern world, often through a Catholic perspective.   Although Greene objected strongly to being described as a Roman Catholic novelist, rather than as a novelist who happened to be Catholic, Catholic religious themes are at the root of much of his writing, especially the four major Catholic novels: Brighton Rock, The Power and the Glory, The Heart of the Matter, and The End of the Affair; which have been named "the gold standard" of the Catholic novel. Several works, such as The Confidential Agent, The Quiet American, Our Man in Havana, The Human Factor, and his screenplay for The Third Man, also show Greene's avid interest in the workings and intrigues of international politics and espionage.   Greene was born in Berkhamsted in Hertfordshire into a large, influential family that included the owners of the Greene King Brewery. He boarded at Berkhamsted School in Hertfordshire, where his father taught and became headmaster. Unhappy at the school, he attempted suicide several times. He went up to Balliol College, Oxford, to study history, where, while an undergraduate, he published his first work in 1925—a poorly received volume of poetry, Babbling April. After graduating, Greene worked first as a private tutor and then as a journalist – first on the Nottingham Journal and then as a sub-editor on The Times. He converted to Catholicism in 1926 after meeting his future wife, Vivien Dayrell-Browning. Later in life he took to calling himself a "Catholic agnostic". He published his first novel, The Man Within, in 1929; its favourable reception enabled him to work full-time as a novelist. He supplemented his novelist's income with freelance journalism, and book and film reviews. His 1937 film review of Wee Willie Winkie (for the British journal Night and Day), commented on the sexuality of the nine-year-old star, Shirley Temple. This provoked Twentieth Century Fox to sue, prompting Greene to live in Mexico until after the trial was over. While in Mexico, Greene developed the ideas for The Power and the Glory. Greene originally divided his fiction into two genres (which he described as "entertainments" and "novels"): thrillers—often with notable philosophic edges—such as The Ministry of Fear; and literary works—on which he thought his literary reputation would rest—such as The Power and the Glory.   Greene had a history of depression, which had a profound effect on his writing and personal life. In a letter to his wife, Vivien, he told her that he had "a character profoundly antagonistic to ordinary domestic life," and that "unfortunately, the disease is also one's material." William Golding praised Greene as "the ultimate chronicler of twentieth-century man's consciousness and anxiety." He died in 1991, at age 86, of leukaemia, and was buried in Corseaux cemetery.
Henry James, OM ((1843-04-15)15 April 1843 – (1916-02-28)28 February 1916) was an American-British author regarded as a key transitional figure between literary realism and literary modernism, and is considered by many to be among the greatest novelists in the English language. He was the son of Henry James Sr. and the brother of renowned philosopher and psychologist William James and diarist Alice James.   He is best known for a number of novels dealing with the social and marital interplay between emigre Americans, English people, and continental Europeans – examples of such novels include The Portrait of a Lady, The Ambassadors, and The Wings of the Dove. His later works were increasingly experimental. In describing the internal states of mind and social dynamics of his characters, James often made use of a style in which ambiguous or contradictory motives and impressions were overlaid or juxtaposed in the discussion of a character's psyche. For their unique ambiguity, as well as for other aspects of their composition, his late works have been compared to impressionist painting.   James also published articles and books of criticism, travel, biography, autobiography and plays. Born in the United States, James largely relocated to Europe as a young man and eventually settled in England, becoming a British subject in 1915, one year before his death. James was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1911, 1912 and 1916.
Henry Lawrence Garfield (born February 13, 1961), better known by his stage name Henry Rollins, is an American musician, actor, writer, television and radio host, and comedian. He hosts a weekly radio show on KCRW, and is a regular columnist for Rolling Stone Australia and was a regular columnist for LA Weekly.   After performing in the short-lived Washington, D.C. band State of Alert in 1980, Rollins fronted the California hardcore punk band Black Flag from August 1981 until mid-1986. Following the band's breakup, Rollins established the record label and publishing company 2.13.61 to release his spoken word albums, and formed the Rollins Band, which toured with a number of lineups from 1987 until 2003, and during 2006.   Since Black Flag disbanded, Rollins has hosted numerous radio shows, such as Harmony in My Head on Indie 103, and television shows such as The Henry Rollins Show, MTV's 120 Minutes, and Jackass. He had recurring dramatic roles in the second season of Sons of Anarchy, in the final seasons of the animated series The Legend of Korra as Zaheer, and has also had roles in several films. Rollins has campaigned for various political causes in the United States, including promoting LGBT rights, World Hunger Relief, the West Memphis Three and an end to war in particular.
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow (February 27, 1807 – March 24, 1882) was an American poet and educator whose works include "Paul Revere's Ride", The Song of Hiawatha, and Evangeline. He was also the first American to translate Dante Alighieri's Divine Comedy and was one of the five Fireside Poets from New England.   Longfellow was born in Portland, Maine, which was then still part of Massachusetts. He studied at Bowdoin College and, after spending time in Europe, he became a professor at Bowdoin and later at Harvard College. His first major poetry collections were Voices of the Night (1839) and Ballads and Other Poems (1841). Longfellow retired from teaching in 1854 to focus on his writing, and he lived the remainder of his life in a former Revolutionary War headquarters of George Washington in Cambridge, Massachusetts. His first wife Mary Potter died in 1835 after a miscarriage. His second wife Frances Appleton died in 1861 after sustaining burns when her dress caught fire. After her death, Longfellow had difficulty writing poetry for a time and focused on translating works from foreign languages. He died in 1882.   Longfellow wrote many lyric poems known for their musicality and often presenting stories of mythology and legend. He became the most popular American poet of his day and also had success overseas. He has been criticized, however, for imitating European styles and writing specifically for the masses.
Henry Ward Beecher (June 24, 1813 – March 8, 1887) was an American Congregationalist clergyman, social reformer, and speaker, known for his support of the abolition of slavery, his emphasis on God's love, and his 1875 adultery trial.   Henry Ward Beecher was the son of Lyman Beecher, a Calvinist minister who became one of the best-known evangelists of his era. Several of his brothers and sisters became well-known educators and activists, most notably Harriet Beecher Stowe, who achieved worldwide fame with her abolitionist novel Uncle Tom's Cabin. Henry Ward Beecher graduated from Amherst College in 1834 and Lane Theological Seminary in 1837 before serving as a minister in Indianapolis and Lawrenceburg, Indiana.   In 1847, Beecher became the first pastor of the Plymouth Church in Brooklyn, New York. He soon acquired fame on the lecture circuit for his novel oratorical style in which he employed humor, dialect, and slang. Over the course of his ministry, he developed a theology emphasizing God's love above all else. He also grew interested in social reform, particularly the abolitionist movement. In the years leading up to the Civil War, he raised money to purchase slaves from captivity and to send rifles—nicknamed "Beecher's Bibles"—to abolitionists fighting in Kansas and Nebraska. He toured Europe during the Civil War speaking in support of the Union.   After the war, Beecher supported social reform causes such as women's suffrage and temperance. He also championed Charles Darwin's theory of evolution, stating that it was not incompatible with Christian beliefs. He was widely rumored to be an adulterer, and the Woodhull & Claflin's Weekly published a story about his affair with Elizabeth Tilton in 1872, the wife of his former associate Theodore Tilton. In 1874, Tilton filed adultery charges against him for the affair. The subsequent trial resulted in a hung jury and was one of the most widely reported trials of the century. Beecher's long career in the public spotlight led biographer Debby Applegate to call her biography of him The Most Famous Man in America.
Heraclitus of Ephesus (/ˌhɛrəˈklaɪtəs/; Greek: Ἡράκλειτος ὁ Ἐφέσιος, translit. Hērákleitos ho Ephésios; c. 535 – c. 475 BCE) was a pre-Socratic Greek philosopher, and a native of the city of Ephesus, then part of the Persian Empire. He was of distinguished parentage. Little is known about his early life and education, but he regarded himself as self-taught and a pioneer of wisdom. From the lonely life he led, and still more from the apparently riddled and allegedly paradoxical nature of his philosophy and his stress upon the heedless unconsciousness of humankind, he was called "The Obscure" and the "Weeping Philosopher".   Heraclitus was famous for his insistence on ever-present change as being the fundamental essence of the universe, as stated in the famous saying, "No man ever steps in the same river twice" (see panta rhei below). This is commonly considered to be one of the first digressions into the philosophical concept of becoming, and has been contrasted with Parmenides statement that "what-is is" as one of the first digressions into the philosophical concept of being. As such, Parmenides and Heraclitus are commonly considered to be two of the founders of ontology. Scholars have generally believed that either Parmenides was responding to Heraclitus, or Heraclitus to Parmenides, though opinion on who was responding to whom changed over the course of the 20th century. Heraclitus' position was complemented by his stark commitment to a unity of opposites in the world, stating that "the path up and down are one and the same". Through these doctrines Heraclitus characterized all existing entities by pairs of contrary properties, whereby no entity may ever occupy a single state at a single time. This, along with his cryptic utterance that "all entities come to be in accordance with this Logos" (literally, "word", "reason", or "account") has been the subject of numerous interpretations.
Herbert Spencer (27 April 1820 – 8 December 1903) was an English philosopher, biologist, anthropologist, sociologist, and prominent classical liberal political theorist of the Victorian era.   Spencer developed an all-embracing conception of evolution as the progressive development of the physical world, biological organisms, the human mind, and human culture and societies. As a polymath, he contributed to a wide range of subjects, including ethics, religion, anthropology, economics, political theory, philosophy, literature, astronomy, biology, sociology, and psychology. During his lifetime he achieved tremendous authority, mainly in English-speaking academia. "The only other English philosopher to have achieved anything like such widespread popularity was Bertrand Russell, and that was in the 20th century." Spencer was "the single most famous European intellectual in the closing decades of the nineteenth century" but his influence declined sharply after 1900: "Who now reads Spencer?" asked Talcott Parsons in 1937.   Spencer is best known for the expression "survival of the fittest", which he coined in Principles of Biology (1864), after reading Charles Darwin's On the Origin of Species. This term strongly suggests natural selection, yet as Spencer extended evolution into realms of sociology and ethics, he also made use of Lamarckism.
Herman Melville (August 1, 1819 – September 28, 1891) was an American novelist, short story writer, and poet of the American Renaissance period. His best known works include Typee (1846), a romantic account of his experiences in Polynesian life, and his whaling novel Moby-Dick (1851). His work was almost forgotten during his last 30 years. His writing draws on his experience at sea as a common sailor, exploration of literature and philosophy, and engagement in the contradictions of American society in a period of rapid change. He developed a complex, baroque style; the vocabulary is rich and original, a strong sense of rhythm infuses the elaborate sentences, the imagery is often mystical or ironic, and the abundance of allusion extends to biblical scripture, myth, philosophy, literature, and the visual arts.   Melville was born in New York City, the third child of a merchant in French dry goods and his wife. His formal education ended abruptly after his father died in 1832, as this left the family in financial straits. He briefly became a schoolteacher before he took to sea in 1839 as a sailor on a merchant ship. In 1840, he signed aboard the whaler Acushnet for his first whaling voyage but jumped ship in the Marquesas Islands. He returned to Boston in 1844 after further adventures. His first book was Typee (1846), a highly romanticized account of his life among Polynesians. It became such a best-seller that he wrote the sequel Omoo (1847). These successes gave him the financial basis to marry Elizabeth Shaw, daughter of a prominent Boston family, but the success proved hard to sustain. His first novel that was not based on his own experiences was Mardi (1849), a sea narrative that develops into a philosophical allegory—but it was not well received. He received warmer reviews for Redburn (1849), a story of life on a merchant ship, and his 1850 description of the harsh life aboard a man-of-war in White-Jacket, but they did not provide financial security.   In August 1850, Melville moved his growing family to Arrowhead, a farm in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, where he established a profound but short-lived friendship with Nathaniel Hawthorne, to whom he dedicated Moby-Dick. This novel was another commercial failure, published to mixed reviews. Melville's career as a popular author effectively ended with the cool reception of Pierre (1852), in part a satirical portrait of the literary culture at the time. His Revolutionary War novel Israel Potter appeared in 1855. From 1853 to 1856, Melville published short fiction in magazines, most notably "Bartleby, the Scrivener" (1853), "The Encantadas" (1854), and "Benito Cereno" (1855). These and three other stories were collected in 1856 as The Piazza Tales. In 1857, he traveled to England where he reunited with Hawthorne for the first time since 1852, and then toured the Near East. The Confidence-Man (1857) was the last prose work that he published. He moved to New York to take a position as Customs Inspector and turned to poetry. Battle-Pieces and Aspects of the War (1866) was his poetic reflection on the moral questions of the American Civil War.   In 1867, his oldest child Malcolm died at home from a self-inflicted gunshot. Clarel: A Poem and Pilgrimage in the Holy Land was published in 1876, a metaphysical epic. In 1886, his son Stanwix died, and Melville retired. During his last years, he privately published two volumes of poetry, left one volume unpublished, and returned to prose of the sea. The novella Billy Budd was left unfinished at his death but was published in 1924. Melville's death from cardiovascular disease in 1891 subdued a reviving interest in his work. The 1919 centennial of his birth became the starting point of the "Melville Revival". Critics discovered his work, scholars explored his life; his major novels and stories have come to be considered world classics, and his poetry has gradually gained respect.
Hippocrates of Kos (/hɪˈpɒkrətiːz/; Greek: Ἱπποκράτης ὁ Κῷος, translit. Hippokrátēs ho Kṓos; c. 460 – c. 370 BC), also known as Hippocrates II, was a Greek physician of the Age of Pericles (Classical Greece), who is considered one of the most outstanding figures in the history of medicine. He is often referred to as the "Father of Medicine" in recognition of his lasting contributions to the field as the founder of the Hippocratic School of Medicine. This intellectual school revolutionized medicine in ancient Greece, establishing it as a discipline distinct from other fields with which it had traditionally been associated (theurgy and philosophy), thus establishing medicine as a profession.   However, the achievements of the writers of the Corpus, the practitioners of Hippocratic medicine and the actions of Hippocrates himself were often commingled; thus very little is known about what Hippocrates actually thought, wrote, and did. Hippocrates is commonly portrayed as the paragon of the ancient physician, and credited with coining the Hippocratic Oath, which is still relevant and in use today. He is also credited with greatly advancing the systematic study of clinical medicine, summing up the medical knowledge of previous schools, and prescribing practices for physicians through the Hippocratic Corpus and other works.
Holly Black née Riggenbach (born November 10, 1971) is an American writer and editor best known for The Spiderwick Chronicles, a series of children's fantasy books she created with writer and illustrator Tony DiTerlizzi, and a trilogy of Young Adult novels officially called the Modern Faerie Tales trilogy. Her 2013 novel Doll Bones was named a Newbery Medal honor book.
Homer (/ˈhoʊmər/; Ancient Greek: Ὅμηρος Greek pronunciation: [hómɛːros], Hómēros) is the legendary author of the Iliad and the Odyssey, two epic poems that are the central works of ancient Greek literature. The Iliad is set during the Trojan War, the ten-year siege of the city of Troy by a coalition of Greek kingdoms. It focuses on a quarrel between King Agamemnon and the warrior Achilles lasting a few weeks during the last year of the war. The Odyssey focuses on the journey home of Odysseus, king of Ithaca, around 20 years after the fall of Troy. Many accounts of Homer's life circulated in classical antiquity, the most widespread being that he was a blind bard from Ionia, a region of central coastal Anatolia in present-day Turkey. Modern scholars consider them legends.   The Homeric Question – concerning by whom, when, where and under what circumstances the Iliad and Odyssey were composed – continues to be debated. Broadly speaking, modern scholarly opinion falls into two groups. One holds that most of the Iliad and (according to some) the Odyssey are the works of a single poet of genius. The other considers the Homeric poems to be the result of a process of working and reworking by many contributors, and that "Homer" is best seen as a label for an entire tradition. It is generally accepted that the poems were composed at some point around the late eighth or early seventh century BC.   The poems are in Homeric Greek, also known as Epic Greek, a literary language which shows a mixture of features of the Ionic and Aeolic dialects from different centuries; the predominant influence is Eastern Ionic. Most researchers believe that the poems were originally transmitted orally. From antiquity until the present day, the influence of the Homeric epics on Western civilization has been great, inspiring many of its most famous works of literature, music, art and film. The Homeric epics were the greatest influence on ancient Greek culture and education; to Plato, Homer was simply the one who "has taught Greece" – ten Hellada pepaideuken.
Honoré de Balzac (/ˈbɔːlzæk, ˈbæl-/; French: [ɔ.nɔ.ʁe d(ə) bal.zak], born Honoré Balzac, 20 May 1799 – 18 August 1850) was a French novelist and playwright. The novel sequence La Comédie humaine, which presents a panorama of post-Napoleonic French life, is generally viewed as his magnum opus.   Owing to his keen observation of detail and unfiltered representation of society, Balzac is regarded as one of the founders of realism in European literature. He is renowned for his multi-faceted characters; even his lesser characters are complex, morally ambiguous and fully human. Inanimate objects are imbued with character as well; the city of Paris, a backdrop for much of his writing, takes on many human qualities. His writing influenced many famous writers, including the novelists Émile Zola, Charles Dickens, Gustave Flaubert, Jack Kerouac, and Henry James, filmmakers Akira Kurosawa and Eric Rohmer as well as important philosophers such as Friedrich Engels. Many of Balzac's works have been made into films, and they continue to inspire other writers.   An enthusiastic reader and independent thinker as a child, Balzac had trouble adapting to the teaching style of his grammar school. His willful nature caused trouble throughout his life and frustrated his ambitions to succeed in the world of business. When he finished school, Balzac was apprenticed in a law office, but he turned his back on the study of law after wearying of its inhumanity and banal routine. Before and during his career as a writer, he attempted to be a publisher, printer, businessman, critic, and politician; he failed in all of these efforts. La Comédie Humaine reflects his real-life difficulties, and includes scenes from his own experience.   Balzac suffered from health problems throughout his life, possibly due to his intense writing schedule. His relationship with his family was often strained by financial and personal drama, and he lost more than one friend over critical reviews. In 1850, Balzac married Ewelina Hańska, a Polish aristocrat and his longtime love; he died in Paris five months later.    - v - t - e
Howard Zinn (August 24, 1922 – January 27, 2010) was an American historian, playwright, and social activist. He was chair of the history and social sciences department at Spelman College, and a political science professor at Boston University. Zinn wrote over twenty books, including his best-selling and influential A People's History of the United States. In 2007, he published a version of it for younger readers, A Young People's History of the United States.   Zinn described himself as "something of an anarchist, something of a socialist. Maybe a democratic socialist." He wrote extensively about the Civil Rights Movement and anti-war movement, and labor history of the United States. His memoir, You Can't Be Neutral on a Moving Train, was also the title of a 2004 documentary about Zinn's life and work. Zinn died of a heart attack in 2010, age 87.
Iain Banks (16 February 1954 – 9 June 2013) was a Scottish author. He wrote mainstream fiction under the name Iain Banks and science fiction as Iain M. Banks, including the initial of his adopted middle name Menzies (/ˈmɪŋɪz/ ().   After the publication and success of The Wasp Factory (1984), Banks began to write on a full-time basis. His first science fiction book, Consider Phlebas, was released in 1987, marking the start of the Culture series. His books have been adapted for theatre, radio and television. In 2008, The Times named Banks in their list of "The 50 greatest British writers since 1945". In April 2013, Banks announced that he had inoperable cancer and was unlikely to live beyond a year. He died on 9 June 2013.
Idries Shah (/ˈɪdrɪs ˈʃɑː/; Pashto: ادريس شاه‎, Urdu: ادریس شاه‬‎; 16 June 1924 – 23 November 1996), also known as Idris Shah, né Sayed Idries el-Hashimi (Arabic: سيد إدريس هاشمي) and by the pen name Arkon Daraul, was an author and teacher in the Sufi tradition who wrote over three dozen books on topics ranging from psychology and spirituality to travelogues and culture studies.   Born in India, the descendant of a family of Afghan nobles, Shah grew up mainly in England. His early writings centred on magic and witchcraft. In 1960 he established a publishing house, Octagon Press, producing translations of Sufi classics as well as titles of his own. His seminal work was The Sufis, which appeared in 1964 and was well received internationally. In 1965, Shah founded the Institute for Cultural Research, a London-based educational charity devoted to the study of human behaviour and culture. A similar organisation, the Institute for the Study of Human Knowledge (ISHK), exists in the United States, under the directorship of Stanford University psychology professor Robert Ornstein, whom Shah appointed as his deputy in the U.S.   In his writings, Shah presented Sufism as a universal form of wisdom that predated Islam. Emphasizing that Sufism was not static but always adapted itself to the current time, place and people, he framed his teaching in Western psychological terms. Shah made extensive use of traditional teaching stories and parables, texts that contained multiple layers of meaning designed to trigger insight and self-reflection in the reader. He is perhaps best known for his collections of humorous Mulla Nasrudin stories.   Shah was at times criticized by orientalists who questioned his credentials and background. His role in the controversy surrounding a new translation of the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam, published by his friend Robert Graves and his older brother Omar Ali-Shah, came in for particular scrutiny. However, he also had many notable defenders, chief among them the novelist Doris Lessing. Shah came to be recognized as a spokesman for Sufism in the West and lectured as a visiting professor at a number of Western universities. His works have played a significant part in presenting Sufism as a form of spiritual wisdom approachable by individuals and not necessarily attached to any specific religion.
Ilona Andrews is the pen name of Ilona Gordon and Andrew Gordon, an American husband-and-wife duo who write urban fantasy and romantic fiction together.
Immanuel Kant (/kænt/; German: [ʔɪˈmaːnu̯eːl ˈkant, -nu̯ɛl -]; 22 April 1724 – 12 February 1804) was a German philosopher who is a central figure in modern philosophy. In his doctrine of transcendental idealism, he argued that space, time and causation are mere sensibilities; "things-in-themselves" exist, but their nature is unknowable. In his view, the mind shapes and structures experience, with all human experience sharing certain structural features. He drew a parallel to the Copernican revolution in his proposition that worldly objects can be intuited a priori ("beforehand"), and that intuition is therefore independent from objective reality. Kant believed that reason is the source of morality, and that aesthetics arise from a faculty of disinterested judgment. Kant's views continue to have a major influence on contemporary philosophy, especially the fields of epistemology, ethics, political theory, and post-modern aesthetics.   In one of Kant's major works, the Critique of Pure Reason (1781), he attempted to explain the relationship between reason and human experience and to move beyond the failures of traditional philosophy and metaphysics. Kant wanted to put an end to an era of futile and speculative theories of human experience, while resisting the skepticism of thinkers such as David Hume. Kant regarded himself as showing the way past the impasse between rationalists and empiricists which philosophy had led to, and is widely held to have synthesized both traditions in his thought.   Kant was an exponent of the idea that perpetual peace could be secured through universal democracy and international cooperation. He believed that this would be the eventual outcome of universal history, although it is not rationally planned. The nature of Kant's religious ideas continues to be the subject of philosophical dispute, with viewpoints ranging from the impression that he was an initial advocate of atheism who at some point developed an ontological argument for God, to more critical treatments epitomized by Nietzsche, who claimed that Kant had "theologian blood" and was merely a sophisticated apologist for traditional Christian faith.   Kant published other important works on ethics, religion, law, aesthetics, astronomy, and history. These include the Universal Natural History (1755), the Critique of Practical Reason (1788), the Metaphysics of Morals (1797), and the Critique of Judgment (1790), which looks at aesthetics and teleology.
In ancient Greek religion and mythology, the Muses (Ancient Greek: Μοῦσαι, Moũsai) are the inspirational goddesses of literature, science, and the arts. They are considered the source of the knowledge embodied in the poetry, lyric songs, and myths that were related orally for centuries in these ancient cultures.   In current English usage, "muse" can refer in general to a person who inspires an artist, musician, or writer.
Incumbent: Francis since 13 March 2013StyleHis HolinessProvinceEcclesiastical Province of RomeDioceseRomeCathedralArchbasilica of St. John LateranFirst holderSaint Peter, according to Catholic traditionFormation1st centuryWebsiteHoly Father Papal styles of PopeReference styleHis HolinessSpoken styleYour HolinessReligious styleHoly Father   - Catholicism portal  - v - t - e   The pope (Latin: papa from Greek: πάππας pappas, "father"), also known as the supreme pontiff (from Latin pontifex maximus "greatest priest"), is the Bishop of Rome and ex officio leader of the worldwide Catholic Church. Since 1929, the pope has also been head of state of Vatican City, a city-state enclaved within Rome, Italy. The current pope is Francis, who was elected on 13 March 2013, succeeding Benedict XVI.   While his office is called the papacy, the episcopal see and ecclesiastical jurisdiction is called the Holy See. It is the Holy See that is the sovereign entity of international law headquartered in the distinctively independent Vatican City State, established by the Lateran Treaty in 1929 between Italy and the Holy See to ensure its temporal, diplomatic, and spiritual independence. The primacy of the Bishop of Rome is largely derived from his role as the apostolic successor to Saint Peter, to whom primacy was conferred by Jesus, giving him the Keys of Heaven and the powers of "binding and loosing", naming him as the "rock" upon which the church would be built.   The apostolic see of Rome was founded by Saint Peter and Saint Paul in 1st century, according to Catholic tradition. The papacy is one of the most enduring institutions in the world and has had a prominent part in world history. In ancient times the popes helped spread Christianity, and intervened to find resolutions in various doctrinal disputes. In the Middle Ages, they played a role of secular importance in Western Europe, often acting as arbitrators between Christian monarchs. Currently, in addition to the expansion of the Christian faith and doctrine, the popes are involved in ecumenism and interfaith dialogue, charitable work, and the defense of human rights.   In some periods of history, the papacy, which originally had no temporal powers, accrued wide secular powers rivaling those of temporal rulers. However, in recent centuries the temporal authority of the papacy has declined and the office is now almost exclusively focused on religious matters. By contrast, papal claims of spiritual authority have been increasingly firmly expressed over time, culminating in 1870 with the proclamation of the dogma of papal infallibility for rare occasions when the pope speaks ex cathedra—literally "from the chair (of Saint Peter)"—to issue a formal definition of faith or morals. Still, the Pope is considered one of the world's most powerful people because of his extensive diplomatic, cultural, and spiritual influence on 1.3 billion Catholics and beyond, as well as the official representative of the Catholic Church being the largest non-government provider of education and health care in the world, with a vast international network of charities.
In many baby name books, Shelley is listed as meaning "From the meadow on the ledge" or "clearing on a bank" sometimes truthful and pretty. It is Old English in origin. As with many other names (Courtney, Lindsey, etc.), Shelley is today a name given almost exclusively to girls after historically being male. Shelley is also a transferred surname used by those in Essex, Suffolk and Yorkshire, particularly in settlements where a wood/clearing was beside a ledge or hillside. Shelly is a common alternative spelling. It is featured in tile on the ceiling of the Library of Congress in Washington D.C.   Notable people with the name include the following.
Irvine Welsh (born 27 September 1958) is a Scottish novelist, playwright and short story writer. His novel Trainspotting was made into a film of the same name. His work is characterised by a raw Scots dialect and brutal depiction of Edinburgh life. He has also written plays and screenplays, and directed several short films.
Irwin Allen Ginsberg (/ˈɡɪnzbɜːrɡ/; June 3, 1926 – April 5, 1997) was an American poet, philosopher and writer. He is considered to be one of the leading figures of both the Beat Generation during the 1950s and the counterculture that soon followed. He vigorously opposed militarism, economic materialism and sexual repression and was known as embodying various aspects of this counterculture, such as his views on drugs, hostility to bureaucracy and openness to Eastern religions. He was one of many influential American writers of his time known as the Beat Generation, which included famous writers such as Jack Kerouac and William S. Burroughs.   Ginsberg is best known for his poem "Howl", in which he denounced what he saw as the destructive forces of capitalism and conformity in the United States. In 1956, "Howl" was seized by San Francisco police and US Customs. In 1957, it attracted widespread publicity when it became the subject of an obscenity trial, as it described heterosexual and homosexual sex at a time when sodomy laws made homosexual acts a crime in every U.S. state. "Howl" reflected Ginsberg's own homosexuality and his relationships with a number of men, including Peter Orlovsky, his lifelong partner. Judge Clayton W. Horn ruled that "Howl" was not obscene, adding, "Would there be any freedom of press or speech if one must reduce his vocabulary to vapid innocuous euphemisms?"   Ginsberg was a practicing Buddhist who studied Eastern religious disciplines extensively. He lived modestly, buying his clothing in second-hand stores and residing in downscale apartments in New York's East Village. One of his most influential teachers was the Tibetan Buddhist Chögyam Trungpa, the founder of the Naropa Institute in Boulder, Colorado. At Trungpa's urging, Ginsberg and poet Anne Waldman started The Jack Kerouac School of Disembodied Poetics there in 1974.   Ginsberg took part in decades of non-violent political protest against everything from the Vietnam War to the War on Drugs. His poem "September on Jessore Road", calling attention to the plight of Bangladeshi refugees, exemplifies what the literary critic Helen Vendler described as Ginsberg's tireless persistence in protesting against "imperial politics, and persecution of the powerless."   His collection The Fall of America shared the annual U.S. National Book Award for Poetry in 1974. In 1979 he received the National Arts Club gold medal and was inducted into the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters. Ginsberg was a Pulitzer Prize finalist in 1995 for his book Cosmopolitan Greetings: Poems 1986–1992.
Isaac Asimov (/ˈæzɪmɒv/; c. January 2, 1920 – April 6, 1992) was an American writer and professor of biochemistry at Boston University. He was known for his works of science fiction and popular science. Asimov was a prolific writer who wrote or edited more than 500 books and an estimated 90,000 letters and postcards. His books have been published in 9 of the 10 major categories of the Dewey Decimal Classification.   Asimov wrote hard science fiction. Along with Robert A. Heinlein and Arthur C. Clarke, Asimov was considered one of the "Big Three" science fiction writers during his lifetime. Asimov's most famous work is the "Foundation" series; his other major series are the "Galactic Empire" series and the Robot series. The Galactic Empire novels are set in earlier history of the same fictional universe as the Foundation series. Later, with Foundation and Earth (1986), he linked this distant future to the Robot stories, creating a unified "future history" for his stories much like those pioneered by Robert A. Heinlein and previously produced by Cordwainer Smith and Poul Anderson. He wrote hundreds of short stories, including the social science fiction novelette "Nightfall"; in 1964, it was voted the best short science fiction story of all time by the Science Fiction Writers of America. Asimov wrote the Lucky Starr series of juvenile science-fiction novels using the pen name Paul French.   Asimov also wrote mysteries and fantasy, as well as much nonfiction. Most of his popular science books explain concepts in a historical way, going as far back as possible to a time when the science in question was at its simplest stage. Examples include Guide to Science, the three-volume set Understanding Physics, and Asimov's Chronology of Science and Discovery, as well as works on chemistry, astronomy, mathematics, history, and William Shakespeare's writings.   He was president of the American Humanist Association. The asteroid 5020 Asimov, a crater on the planet Mars, a Brooklyn elementary school, and a literary award are named in his honor.
Isaac MarionIsaac Marion at 2016 Newcon PDXBorn (1981-12-30) December 30, 1981 (age 37)OccupationNovelist, musicianLanguageEnglishNationalityAmericanNotable worksWarm bodies seriesWebsiteisaacmarion.com  Isaac Marion is an American writer. He is best known as the best-selling author of the "zombie romance" novel Warm Bodies and its series.
Isabel Allende (Spanish: [isaˈβel aˈʝende] (; born August 2, 1942) is a Chilean writer. Allende, whose works sometimes contain aspects of the genre of "magical realism", is famous for novels such as The House of the Spirits (La casa de los espíritus, 1982) and City of the Beasts (La ciudad de las bestias, 2002), which have been commercially successful. Allende has been called "the world's most widely read Spanish-language author." In 2004, Allende was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and in 2010, she received Chile's National Literature Prize. President Barack Obama awarded her the 2014 Presidential Medal of Freedom.   Allende's novels are often based upon her personal experience and historical events and pay homage to the lives of women, while weaving together elements of myth and realism. She has lectured and toured many U.S. colleges to teach literature. Fluent in English as a second language, Allende was granted United States citizenship in 1993, having lived in California since 1989, first with her U.S husband (from whom she is now separated).
Italo Calvino (Italian: [ˈiːtalo kalˈviːno]; 15 October 1923 – 19 September 1985) was an Italian journalist and writer of short stories and novels. His best known works include the Our Ancestors trilogy (1952–1959), the Cosmicomics collection of short stories (1965), and the novels Invisible Cities (1972) and If on a winter's night a traveler (1979).   He was the most-translated contemporary Italian writer at the time of his death.
Izumi Shikibu (Japanese: 和泉式部, b. 976?) was a mid Heian period Japanese poet. She is a member of the Thirty-six Medieval Poetry Immortals (中古三十六歌仙, chūko sanjurokkasen). She was the contemporary of Murasaki Shikibu, and Akazome Emon at the court of empress Joto Mon'in.   She "is considered by many to have been the greatest woman poet of the Heian period." Her legacy includes 242 poems and 2 kashu.   "Torn between worldly ties and physical desire, Izumi Shikibu left a wealth of passionate love poetry, fueling rumors that purported that she was a femme fatale with numerous lovers besides her two husbands and two princely lovers.":155
Jack Kerouac (/ˈkɛruæk/; born Jean-Louis Kérouac (though he called himself Jean-Louis Lebris de Kérouac); March 12, 1922 – October 21, 1969) was an American novelist and poet of French-Canadian descent.   He is considered a literary iconoclast and, alongside William S. Burroughs and Allen Ginsberg, a pioneer of the Beat Generation. Kerouac is recognized for his method of spontaneous prose. Thematically, his work covers topics such as Catholic spirituality, jazz, promiscuity, Buddhism, drugs, poverty, and travel. He became an underground celebrity and, with other beats, a progenitor of the hippie movement, although he remained antagonistic toward some of its politically radical elements.   In 1969, at age 47, Kerouac died from an abdominal hemorrhage caused by a lifetime of heavy drinking. Since his death, Kerouac's literary prestige has grown, and several previously unseen works have been published. All of his books are in print today, including The Town and the City, On the Road, Doctor Sax, The Dharma Bums, Mexico City Blues, The Subterraneans, Desolation Angels, Visions of Cody, The Sea Is My Brother, and Big Sur.
Jack Kornfield (born 1945) is a bestselling American author and teacher in the vipassana movement in American Theravada Buddhism. He trained as a Buddhist monk in Thailand, Burma and India, first as a student of the Thai forest master Ajahn Chah and Mahasi Sayadaw of Burma. He has taught meditation worldwide since 1974 and is one of the key teachers to introduce Buddhist Mindfulness practice to the West. In 1975, he co-founded the Insight Meditation Society in Barre, Massachusetts, with Sharon Salzberg and Joseph Goldstein, and subsequently in 1987, Spirit Rock Meditation Center in Woodacre, California. Kornfield has organized teacher training and led international gatherings of Buddhist teachers including the Dalai Lama and has worked as a peacemaker and activist.
Jacques Derrida (/ˈdɛrɪdə/; French: [ʒak dɛʁida]; born Jackie Élie Derrida; July 15, 1930 – October 9, 2004) was an Algerian-born French philosopher best known for developing a form of semiotic analysis known as deconstruction, which he discussed in numerous texts, and developed in the context of phenomenology. He is one of the major figures associated with post-structuralism and postmodern philosophy.   During his career Derrida published more than 40 books, together with hundreds of essays and public presentations. He had a significant influence upon the humanities and social sciences, including philosophy, literature, law, anthropology, historiography, applied linguistics, sociolinguistics, psychoanalysis, political theory, religious studies, feminism, and gay and lesbian studies.   His work retains major academic influence throughout continental Europe, South America and all other countries where "continental philosophy" has been predominant, particularly in debates around ontology, epistemology (especially concerning social sciences), ethics, aesthetics, hermeneutics, and the philosophy of language. He also influenced architecture (in the form of deconstructivism), music, art, and art criticism.   Particularly in his later writings, Derrida addressed ethical and political themes in his work. Some critics consider Speech and Phenomena (1967) to be his most important work. Others cite Of Grammatology, Writing and Difference, and Margins of Philosophy. These writings influenced various activists and political movements. He became a well-known and influential public figure, while his approach to philosophy and the notorious abstruseness of his work made him controversial.
Jalāl ad-Dīn Muhammad Rūmī (Persian: جلال‌الدین محمد رومی‎), also known as Jalāl ad-Dīn Muhammad Balkhī (جلال‌الدین محمد بلخى), Mevlânâ/Mawlānā (مولانا, "our master"), Mevlevî/Mawlawī (مولوی, "my master"), and more popularly simply as Rumi (30 September 1207 – 17 December 1273), was a 13th-century Persian poet, jurist, Islamic scholar, theologian, and Sufi mystic originally from Greater Khorasan. Rumi's influence transcends national borders and ethnic divisions: Iranians, Tajiks, Turks, Greeks, Pashtuns, other Central Asian Muslims, and the Muslims of South Asia have greatly appreciated his spiritual legacy for the past seven centuries. His poems have been widely translated into many of the world's languages and transposed into various formats. Rumi has been described as the "most popular poet" and the "best selling poet" in the United States.   Rumi's works are written mostly in Persian, but occasionally he also used Turkish, Arabic, and Greek, in his verse. His Masnavi (Mathnawi), composed in Konya, is considered one of the greatest poems of the Persian language. His works are widely read today in their original language across Greater Iran and the Persian-speaking world. Translations of his works are very popular, most notably in Turkey, Azerbaijan, the United States, and South Asia. His poetry has influenced not only Persian literature, but also Turkish, Ottoman Turkish, Azerbaijani, as well as the literature of some other Turkic, Iranian, and Indo-Aryan languages including Chagatai, Urdu and Pashto.
Jamaica Kincaid (/kɪnˈkeɪd/; born May 25, 1949) is an Antiguan-American novelist, essayist, gardener, and gardening writer. She was born in St. John's, Antigua (part of the twin-island nation of Antigua and Barbuda). She lives in North Bennington, Vermont (in the United States) during the summers, and is Professor of African and African American Studies in Residence at Harvard University during the academic year.
James A. Murphy (March 31, 1889 Laurium, Michigan – March 19, 1939) of Detroit was a member of the Michigan Senate (1933–1939).  External links   - Political Graveyard      This article about a Michigan politician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
James Brendan Patterson (born March 22, 1947) is an American author and philanthropist. Among his works are the Alex Cross, Michael Bennett, Women's Murder Club, Maximum Ride, Daniel X, NYPD Red, Witch and Wizard, and Private series, as well as many stand-alone thrillers, non-fiction and romance novels. His books have sold more than 300 million copies and he was the first person to sell 1 million e-books. In 2016, Patterson topped Forbes's list of highest-paid authors for the third consecutive year, with an income of $95 million. His total income over a decade is estimated at $700 million.   In November 2015, Patterson received the Literarian Award from the National Book Foundation, which cited him as a "passionate campaigner to make books and reading a national priority. A generous supporter of universities, teachers colleges, independent bookstores, school libraries, and college students, Patterson has donated millions of dollars in grants and scholarships with the purpose of encouraging Americans of all ages to read more books."
James Mercer Langston Hughes (February 1, 1902 – May 22, 1967) was an American poet, social activist, novelist, playwright, and columnist from Joplin, Missouri. He moved to New York City as a young man, where he made his career.   He was one of the earliest innovators of the then-new literary art form called jazz poetry. Hughes is best known as a leader of the Harlem Renaissance in New York City. He famously wrote about the period that "the negro was in vogue", which was later paraphrased as "when Harlem was in vogue".
James Oliver Rigney Jr. (October 17, 1948 – September 16, 2007), better known by his pen name Robert Jordan, was an American author of epic fantasy. He is best known for the Wheel of Time series, which comprises 14 books and a prequel novel. He is one of several writers to have written original Conan the Barbarian novels; his are highly acclaimed to this day. Rigney also wrote historical fiction under his pseudonym Reagan O'Neal, a western as Jackson O'Reilly, and dance criticism as Chang Lung. Additionally, he ghostwrote an "international thriller" that is still believed to have been written by someone else.
James W. Fowler III (October 12, 1940 – October 16, 2015) was an American theologian who was Professor of Theology and Human Development at Emory University. He was director of both the Center for Research on Faith and Moral Development and the Center for Ethics until he retired in 2005. He was a minister in the United Methodist Church.
Jandy Nelson (born 1965) is an American author of young adult fiction. Prior to her career as an author, Nelson worked for 13 years as a literary agent. She holds a BA from Cornell University as well as MFAs in poetry and children's writing from Brown University and Vermont College of Fine Arts. Nelson lives in San Francisco, California.
Jane Austen (/ˈɒstɪn, ˈɔːs-/; 16 December 1775 – 18 July 1817) was an English novelist known primarily for her six major novels, which interpret, critique and comment upon the British landed gentry at the end of the 18th century. Austen's plots often explore the dependence of women on marriage in the pursuit of favourable social standing and economic security. Her works critique the novels of sensibility of the second half of the 18th century and are part of the transition to 19th-century literary realism. Her use of biting irony, along with her realism, humour, and social commentary, have long earned her acclaim among critics, scholars, and popular audiences alike.   With the publications of Sense and Sensibility (1811), Pride and Prejudice (1813), Mansfield Park (1814) and Emma (1816), she achieved success as a published writer. She wrote two additional novels, Northanger Abbey and Persuasion, both published posthumously in 1818, and began another, eventually titled Sanditon, but died before its completion. She also left behind three volumes of juvenile writings in manuscript, a short epistolary novel Lady Susan, and another unfinished novel, The Watsons. Her six full-length novels have rarely been out of print, although they were published anonymously and brought her moderate success and little fame during her lifetime.   A significant transition in her posthumous reputation occurred in 1833, when her novels were republished in Richard Bentley's Standard Novels series, illustrated by Ferdinand Pickering, and sold as a set. They gradually gained wider acclaim and popular readership. In 1869, fifty-two years after her death, her nephew's publication of A Memoir of Jane Austen introduced a compelling version of her writing career and supposedly uneventful life to an eager audience.   Austen has inspired a large number of critical essays and literary anthologies. Her novels have inspired many films, from 1940's Pride and Prejudice to more recent productions like Sense and Sensibility (1995), Emma (1996), Mansfield Park (1999), Pride & Prejudice (2005), and Love & Friendship (2016).
Janet Evanovich (born Janet Schneider; April 22, 1943) is an American writer. She began her career writing short contemporary romance novels under the pen name Steffie Hall, but gained fame authoring a series of contemporary mysteries featuring Stephanie Plum, a former lingerie buyer from Trenton, New Jersey, who becomes a bounty hunter to make ends meet after losing her job. The novels in this series have been on The New York Times, USA Today, Wall Street Journal and Amazon bestseller lists. Evanovich has had her last seventeen Plums debut at #1 on the NY Times Best Sellers list and eleven of them have hit #1 on USA Today Best-Selling Books list. She has over two hundred million books in print worldwide and is translated into over 40 languages.
Janet Fitch (born November 9, 1955) is most famously known as the author of the Oprah's Book Club novel White Oleander, which became a film in 2002. She is a graduate of Reed College, located in Portland, Oregon[citation needed].   Janet Fitch was born in Los Angeles, a third-generation native, and grew up in a family of voracious readers. As an undergraduate at Reed College, Fitch had decided to become a historian, attracted to its powerful narratives, the scope of events, the colossal personalities, and the potency and breadth of its themes. But when she won a student exchange to Keele University in England, where her passion for Russian history led her, she awoke in the middle of the night on her twenty-first birthday with the revelation she wanted to write fiction[citation needed].   Janet Fitch is a faculty member in the Master of Professional Writing Program at the University of Southern California, where she teaches fiction.   Two of her favorite authors are Fyodor Dostoevsky and Edgar Allan Poe.   Her third novel, Paint It Black, named after the Rolling Stones song of the same name, was published in September 2006. Amber Tamblyn directed a feature motion picture based on the book, which opened in Los Angeles at the Laemmle Music Hall Theater on May 19, 2017.  Books   - Kicks (Fawcett Books, 1996) - White Oleander (Little, Brown, 1999) - Paint It Black (Little, Brown, 2006) - The Revolution of Marina M. (Little, Brown and Company, 2017) References    1. ^ a b California Births, 1905 – 1995, Janet Elizabeth Fitch  External links   - Janet Fitch's Website - Janet Fitch's Blog at Wordpress.com - Janet Fitch at Literati.net - Janet Fitch at Good Reads - Works by or about Janet Fitch in libraries (WorldCat catalog)       This article about a novelist of the United States born in the 1950s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
J.A. Redmerski (born November 25, 1975) is an American New York Times, Wall Street Journal and USA Today Bestseller List novelist. Her book The Edge of Never was initially self-published in 2012, but was re-released in 2013 through Forever Romance/Grand Central Publishing.
Jason MrazMraz performing in March 2011BornJason Thomas Mraz  (1977-06-23) June 23, 1977 (age 41) Mechanicsville, Virginia, U.S.EducationLee-Davis High SchoolOccupationSinger-songwriterYears active1999–presentSpouse(s)Christina Carano (m. 2015)Musical careerGenres  - Pop rock - pop - blue-eyed soul - reggae - alternative rock - alternative hip hop - soul - funk - jazzInstruments  - Vocals - guitar - ukulele - bouzouki - piano - keyboards - synthesizerLabels  - Elektra - AtlanticAssociated acts  - Tristan Prettyman - Colbie Caillat - Bushwalla - Christina Perri - Raining JaneWebsitejasonmraz.com   Jason Thomas Mraz (/məˈræz/; born June 23, 1977) is an American singer-songwriter who first came to prominence in the San Diego coffee shop scene in 2000. In 2002, he released his debut studio album, Waiting for My Rocket to Come, which contained the hit single "The Remedy (I Won't Worry)". With the release of his second album, Mr. A-Z, in 2005, Mraz achieved major commercial success. The album peaked at number 5 on the Billboard 200 and sold over 100,000 copies in the US. In 2008, Mraz released his third studio album, We Sing. We Dance. We Steal Things. It debuted at number 3 on the Billboard 200 and was an international commercial success primarily due to the hit "I'm Yours". The song peaked at number 6 on the Billboard Hot 100, giving him his first top ten single, and spent a then-record 76 weeks on the Hot 100. His fourth album, Love Is a Four Letter Word, peaked at number 2 on the Billboard 200, his highest-charting album to date.   Mraz has won two Grammy Awards and received two additional nominations, and has also won two Teen Choice Awards, a People's Choice Award and the Hal David Songwriters Hall of Fame Award. He has earned Platinum and multi-Platinum certifications in over 20 countries, and has toured in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Australia, the Middle East and parts of Africa. As of July 2014, Mraz has sold over seven million albums, and over 11.5 million downloaded singles. His musical style, from rhythmic feeling to his use of nylon string guitars, has been heavily influenced by Brazilian music.
Jasper Fforde (born 11 January 1961) is a British novelist. Fforde's first novel, The Eyre Affair, was published in 2001. Fforde is known mainly for his Thursday Next novels. He has published two books in the loosely connected Nursery Crime series, and has published the first books of two additional independent series, The Last Dragonslayer and Shades of Grey.   Fforde's books contain a profusion of literary allusions and wordplay, tightly scripted plots, and playfulness with the conventions of traditional genres. His works usually contain elements of metafiction, parody, and fantasy.
Jay Asher (born September 30, 1975) is an American writer of contemporary novels for teens. He is best known for writing Thirteen Reasons Why.
J.D. Robb (born John Donald Robb, 1892 in Minneapolis, Minnesota; died 1989 in Albuquerque, New Mexico) was a composer of electronic and classical music.   Robb was originally a professor emeritus of music and dean emeritus of the College of Fine Arts at the University of New Mexico, before turning his hand to music composition in 1941. He went on to compose various stage, classical and experimental electronic pieces, which were later compiled and released in the 1970s. The best known of these is Rhythmania And Other Electronic Musical Compositions  which contained a precursor to modern electronica entitled "Rhythmania".  External links   - John Donald Robb Musical Trust - Discogs profile
Jean-Baptiste Poquelin, known by his stage name Molière (/mɒlˈjɛər, moʊl-/; French: [mɔ.ljɛːʁ]; 15 January 1622 – 17 February 1673), was a French playwright, actor and poet, widely regarded as one of the greatest writers in the French language and universal literature. His extant works includes comedies, farces, tragicomedies, comédie-ballets, and more. His plays have been translated into every major living language and are performed at the Comédie-Française more often than those of any other playwright today. His influence is such that the French language itself is often referred to as the "language of Molière".   Born into a prosperous family and having studied at the Collège de Clermont (now Lycée Louis-le-Grand), Molière was well suited to begin a life in the theatre. Thirteen years as an itinerant actor helped him polish his comic abilities while he began writing, combining Commedia dell'arte elements with the more refined French comedy.   Through the patronage of aristocrats including Philippe I, Duke of Orléans—the brother of Louis XIV—Molière procured a command performance before the King at the Louvre. Performing a classic play by Pierre Corneille and a farce of his own, The Doctor in Love, Molière was granted the use of salle du Petit-Bourbon near the Louvre, a spacious room appointed for theatrical performances. Later, he was granted the use of the theatre in the Palais-Royal. In both locations Molière found success among Parisians with plays such as The Affected Ladies, The School for Husbands and The School for Wives. This royal favour brought a royal pension to his troupe and the title Troupe du Roi ("The King's Troupe"). Molière continued as the official author of court entertainments.   Despite the adulation of the court and Parisians, Molière's satires attracted criticism from churchmen. For Tartuffe's impiety, the Catholic Church denounced this study of religious hypocrisy followed by the Parliament's ban, while Don Juan was withdrawn and never restaged by Molière.  His hard work in so many theatrical capacities took its toll on his health and, by 1667, he was forced to take a break from the stage. In 1673, during a production of his final play, The Imaginary Invalid, Molière, who suffered from pulmonary tuberculosis, was seized by a coughing fit and a haemorrhage while playing the hypochondriac Argan. He finished the performance but collapsed again and died a few hours later.
Jean Baudrillard (/ˌboʊdriˈɑːr/; French: [ʒɑ̃ bodʁijaʁ]; 27 July 1929 – 6 March 2007) was a French sociologist, philosopher, cultural theorist, political commentator, and photographer. He is best known for his analyses of media, contemporary culture, and technological communication, as well as his formulation of concepts such as simulation and hyperreality. He wrote about diverse subjects, including consumerism, gender relations, economics, social history, art, Western foreign policy, and popular culture. Among his best known works are Simulacra and Simulation (1981), America (1986), and The Gulf War Did Not Take Place (1991). His work is frequently associated with postmodernism and specifically post-structuralism.
Jeanette Winterson, CBE (born 27 August 1959) is an award-winning English writer, who became famous with her first book, Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit, a semi-autobiographical novel about a sensitive teenage girl rebelling against conventional values. Some of her other novels have explored gender polarities and sexual identity. Winterson is also a broadcaster and a professor of creative writing. She is a two-time winner of the Lambda Literary Award, which focuses on LGBT issues.
Jean Gebser (German: [ˈɡeːpsɐ]; August 20, 1905 – May 14, 1973) was a philosopher, a linguist, and a poet, who described the structures of human consciousness.
Jeaniene Frost (born 1974) is an American fantasy author, known for her work on the New York Times and USA Today bestselling Night Huntress series and the Night Huntress World novels. Foreign rights for her novels have sold to nineteen different countries.   Frost first came up with the idea for the Night Huntress series after dreaming of a couple arguing. "In my dream, I saw a man and a woman arguing. Somehow I knew the woman was a half-vampire, the man was a full vampire, and they were arguing because he was angry that she'd left him." This formed the basis for the second book; the first book details the circumstances under which the couple was separated. The series spans seven books, not including the series spinoffs. Up From The Grave was the last Night Huntress book. Frost gives a detailed explanation of why she ended the series at book seven instead of the planned eight or nine on her website.
Jean-Jacques Rousseau (UK: /ˈruːsoʊ/, US: /ruːˈsoʊ/; French: [ʒɑ̃ʒak ʁuso]; 28 June 1712 – 2 July 1778) was a Genevan philosopher, writer and composer. Born in Geneva, his political philosophy influenced the progress of the Enlightenment throughout Europe, as well as aspects of the French Revolution and the development of modern political and educational thought.   His Discourse on Inequality and The Social Contract are cornerstones in modern political and social thought. Rousseau's sentimental novel Julie, or the New Heloise (1761) was important to the development of preromanticism and romanticism in fiction. His Emile, or On Education (1762) is an educational treatise on the place of the individual in society. Rousseau's autobiographical writings—the posthumously published Confessions (composed in 1769), which initiated the modern autobiography, and the unfinished Reveries of a Solitary Walker (composed 1776–1778)—exemplified the late-18th-century "Age of Sensibility", and featured an increased focus on subjectivity and introspection that later characterized modern writing.   Rousseau befriended fellow philosophy writer Denis Diderot in 1742, and would later write about Diderot's romantic troubles in his autobiography, Confessions. During the period of the French Revolution, Rousseau was the most popular of the philosophers among members of the Jacobin Club. He was interred as a national hero in the Panthéon in Paris, in 1794, 16 years after his death.
Jeannette Walls (born April 21, 1960) is an American author and journalist widely known as former gossip columnist for MSNBC.com and author of The Glass Castle, a memoir of the nomadic family life of her childhood. Published in 2005, it remains on the New York Times Best Seller list (now in paperback form) as of the list dated June 3, 2018, having persisted there for 421 weeks.
Jean Nicolas Arthur Rimbaud (UK: /ˈræ̃boʊ/, US: /ræmˈboʊ/; French: [aʁtyʁ ʁɛ̃bo] (; 20 October 1854 – 10 November 1891) was a French poet who is known for his influence on modern literature and arts, which prefigured surrealism. Born in Charleville-Mézières, he started writing at a very young age and excelled as a student, but abandoned his formal education in his teenage years to run away from home to Paris amidst the Franco-Prussian War. During his late adolescence and early adulthood he began the bulk of his literary output, then completely stopped writing at the age of 21, after assembling one of his major works, Illuminations.   Rimbaud was known to have been a libertine and a restless soul, having engaged in an at times violent romantic relationship with fellow poet Paul Verlaine, which lasted nearly two years. After ending his literary career, he traveled extensively on three continents as a merchant before his death from cancer just after his thirty-seventh birthday. As a poet, Rimbaud is well known for his contributions to Symbolism and, among other works, for A Season in Hell, a precursor to modernist literature.
Jean Piaget (UK: /piˈæʒeɪ/, US: /ˌpiːəˈʒeɪ/; French: [ʒɑ̃ pjaʒɛ]; 9 August 1896 – 16 September 1980) was a Swiss psychologist known for his work on child development. Piaget's theory of cognitive development and epistemological view are together called "genetic epistemology".   Piaget placed great importance on the education of children. As the Director of the International Bureau of Education, he declared in 1934 that "only education is capable of saving our societies from possible collapse, whether violent, or gradual." His theory of child development is studied in pre-service education programs. Educators continue to incorporate constructivist-based strategies.   Piaget created the International Center for Genetic Epistemology in Geneva in 1955 while on the faculty of the University of Geneva and directed the Center until his death in 1980. The number of collaborations that its founding made possible, and their impact, ultimately led to the Center being referred to in the scholarly literature as "Piaget's factory".   According to Ernst von Glasersfeld, Jean Piaget was "the great pioneer of the constructivist theory of knowing." However, his ideas did not become widely popularized until the 1960s. This then led to the emergence of the study of development as a major sub-discipline in psychology. By the end of the 20th century, Piaget was second only to B. F. Skinner as the most cited psychologist of that era.
Jean Rhys, CBE (/riːs/; born Ella Gwendolyn Rees Williams (24 August 1890 – 14 May 1979), was a mid-20th-century novelist who was born and grew up in the Caribbean island of Dominica. From the age of 16, she was mainly resident in England, where she was sent for her education. She is best known for her novel Wide Sargasso Sea (1966), written as a prequel to Charlotte Brontë's Jane Eyre. In 1978 she was awarded the Order of the British Empire for her writing.
Jean Webster (pseudonym for Alice Jane Chandler Webster, July 24, 1876 – June 11, 1916) was an American writer and author of many books including Daddy-Long-Legs and Dear Enemy. Her best-known books feature lively and likeable young female protagonists who come of age intellectually, morally, and socially, but with enough humor, snappy dialogue, and gently biting social commentary to make her books palatable and enjoyable to contemporary readers.
Jeffrey McDaniel (born 1967) is an American poet. He has published five books of poetry, most recently Chapel of Inadvertent Joy (University of Pittsburgh Press). He is the recipient of a creative writing fellowship from the National Endowment for the Arts. His writing has been included in Ploughshares, The Best American Poetry 1994, The Best American Poetry 2010, and The New Young American Poets, as well as on the National Endowment for the Arts website. He was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.   McDaniel received a BA from Sarah Lawrence College in 1990, where he studied with Thomas Lux, Brooks Haxton, Kate Knapp-Johnson, Cornelius Eady, and Safiya Henderson-Holmes. In his senior year of college, McDaniel was in a weekly reading group with authors Joel Brouwer, Tessa Rumsey, and Marisa de los Santos among others. A chapbook, The Boy Inside The Turtle, was published in 1989 by fellow student Gerry LaFemina.   McDaniel received an MFA from George Mason University in 1993, where he studied with C.K. Williams, Susan Tichy, and Carolyn Forche. In grad school, he was the poetry editor for the school's national literary magazine, Phoebe, 1991–92, and the editor, 1992-93. He was also active in a student performance troupe, Poetry Theater, (founded by Chris Carpenter), where grad students presented their poems in a theatrical context. In grad school, McDaniel first began publishing poems in magazines, including Ploughshares, Fine Madness, Exquisite Corpse, and Willow Springs. In his final year of grad school, he also got involved with the nascent poetry slam movement at the 15 Minutes Club in Washington DC. He was on a team (with Silvana Straw among others) to represent DC at the 1993 National Poetry Slam in San Francisco. He also represented Washington DC at the 1994 and '95 National Poetry Slams and Venice Beach (California) in the 1998 National Poetry Slam in Austin, Texas. McDaniel has not performed in a poetry slam since the late 1990s.   After grad school, McDaniel worked for DC WritersCorps, a poetry in the community project. Other DC WritersCorps members included DJ Renegade, Kenny Carroll, Joe Ray Sandoval, A, Van Jordan, Imani Tolliver, Brian Gilmore, and many other talented writers. From 1994-96, McDaniel co-hosted (with Silvana Straw) a monthly reading series at The Black Cat Club on 14th and T. Many talented writers performed there, including Henry Taylor, Carl Hancock Rux, Matt Cook, Crystal Williams, A.E. Stallings, and Jose Padua. During this time, McDaniel did a one-man show, Hunting For Cherubs, combining poetry, video, dance, and music, at the Washington Project for the Arts, produced by Ceridwen Morris.   McDaniel's first three books, Alibi School (1995), The Forgiveness Parade (1998), and The Splinter Factory (2002) were published by Manic D Press. In September 1996, he moved to the Silver Lake neighborhood of Los Angeles. He curated readings at Beyond Baroque Literary Arts Center in Venice Beach and taught poetry workshops at high schools throughout the city. From 1999-2001, he took a team of six high school poets (with the help of Derrick Brown) to Brave New Voices, the National Teen Poetry Slam.   Since 2001, he has been teaching creative writing at Sarah Lawrence College. A compilation of selected poems, Katastrophenkunde, was translated into German by Ron Winkler and published in 2006. In 2010, he was one of five judges for the National Book award in poetry.   He is currently in the process of writing a new poetry book titled "4,000 A.M." He lives in Cold Spring, New York.  Works   - Alibi School - Manic D Press 1995. ISBN 0-916397-38-6 - The Forgiveness Parade - Manic D Press 1998. ISBN 0-916397-55-6 - The Splinter Factory - Manic D Press 2002. ISBN 0-916397-79-3 - The Endarkenment - University of Pittsburgh Press 2008. ISBN 0-8229-5995-X - Chapel of Inadvertent Joy - University of Pittsburgh Press 2013). ISBN 0-8229-6260-8 References    1. ^ "Author Details". Pshares.org. Retrieved 2012-07-24.  2. ^ "jaime wright". Jaimewright.ws. Retrieved 2012-07-24.  3. ^ "Ninth Annual Poetry Festival". Slc.edu. Archived from the original on 2008-07-04. Retrieved 2012-07-24.  4. ^ http://www.ronwinkler.de/mcdaniel2.html  External links   - Jeffrey McDaniel's author page at Ploughshares - Jeffrey McDaniel's poem "Return to El Perdido Mundo" in Gulf Coast: A Journal of Literature and Fine Arts (25.1). - Jeffrey McDaniel at MySpace
Jeff VanderMeer is an American author, editor, and literary critic. Initially associated with the New Weird literary genre, VanderMeer crossed over into mainstream success with his bestselling Southern Reach Trilogy. The trilogy's first novel, Annihilation, won the Nebula and Shirley Jackson Awards, and was adapted into a Hollywood film by director Alex Garland. Among VanderMeer's other novels are Shriek: An Afterword and Borne. He has also edited with his wife Ann VanderMeer such influential and award-winning anthologies as The New Weird, The Weird, and The Big Book of Science Fiction.   VanderMeer has been called "one of the most remarkable practitioners of the literary fantastic in America today," with The New Yorker naming him the "King of Weird Fiction." VanderMeer's fiction is noted for eluding genre classifications even as his works bring in themes and elements from genres such as postmodernism, ecofiction, the New Weird and post-apocalyptic fiction.   VanderMeer's writing has been described as "evocative" and containing "intellectual observations both profound and disturbing," and has been compared with the works of Jorge Luis Borges, Franz Kafka, and Henry David Thoreau.
Jennifer Carolyn Robin McKinley (born November 16, 1952), known as Robin McKinley, is an American author of fantasy and children's books. Her 1984 novel The Hero and the Crown won the Newbery Medal as the year's best new American children's book.   As of 2015, McKinley has written or contributed to twenty books. Her most recent novel is Shadows (2013).
Jennifer Crusie (born 1949) is a pseudonym for Jennifer Smith, a bestselling and award winning author of contemporary romance novels. She has written more than twenty novels, which have been published in 20 countries.
Jennifer Donnelly (born August 16, 1963) is an American writer of young adult fiction best known for the historical novel A Northern Light.   A Northern Light was published as A Gathering Light in the U.K. There, it won the 2003 Carnegie Medal, recognizing the year's outstanding children's book. For the 70th anniversary of the Medal a few years later, it was named one of the top ten winning works, selected by a panel to compose the ballot for a public election of the all-time favorite. Similarly, it was named one of Time Magazine's 100 Best Young Adult Books of All Time in 2015.
Jennifer Egan (born September 7, 1962) is an American novelist and short story writer who lives in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn with her husband and two sons. Egan's novel A Visit from the Goon Squad won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and National Book Critics Circle Award for fiction. As of February 28, 2018, she is the President of the PEN America Center.
Jennifer Niven is an American author who is best known for the 2015 young adult book, All the Bright Places.  Life and career   Niven grew up in Indiana. As well as writing novels, Niven has also worked as a screenwriter, journalist and an associate producer at ABC Television.   Her first two books were non-fiction narratives called The Ice Master (published in 2000) and Ada Blackjack: A True Story of Survival in the Arctic (published in 2003). In 2010, she published a memoir of her years in high school called The Aqua Net Diaries: Big Hair, Big Dreams, Small Town.   She began writing a series of historical novels in 2009. The first, Velva Jean Learns to Drive, was based on a short film of the same name that she had made. It won an Emmy Award and the Colin Higgins Award for Screenwriting. The series also includes, Velva Jean Learns to Fly, Becoming Clementine and American Blonde.   Niven's first young adult novel, All the Bright Places was released in 2015. The narrative follows two teenagers, Violet and Finch who are struggling with mental health issues. It won a 2015 Goodreads choice award for Best Young Adult Fiction and was longlisted for the 2015 Guardian Children's Fiction Prize. It is to be adapted into a film by Netflix and will star Elle Fanning and Justice Smith. Production on the film began in October 2018.   She released another young adult novel in 2016 called Holding Up the Universe. The inspiration of the novel came from Niven's problems with weight and subsequent bullying as a teenager after her the death of her father.  Bibliography   Young Adult    - All the Bright Places (2015) ISBN 0385755880 - Holding Up the Universe (2016) ISBN 0385755929   Velva Jean Series    - Velva Jean Learns to Drive (2009) ISBN 0452289459 - Velva Jean Learns to Fly (2011) ISBN 0452297400 - Becoming Clementine (2012) ISBN 0452298105 - American Blonde (2014) ISBN 0452298210   Non-fiction    - The Ice Master (2000) ISBN 0786884460 - Ada Blackjack: A True Story of Survival in the Arctic (2003) ISBN 0786868635 - The Aqua Net Diaries: Big Hair, Big Dreams, Small Town (2010) ISBN 1416954295 References    1. ^ "Jennifer Niven: Life is too short to be closed off to possibility". The Guardian. 26 January 2015. Retrieved 11 December 2018.  2. ^ a b "Jennifer Niven". www.panmacmillan.com. Retrieved 11 December 2018.  3. ^ Niven, Jennifer (2001). "The ice master : the doomed 1913 voyage of the Karluk". National Library of Australia. London : Pan. Retrieved 11 December 2018.  4. ^ Niven, Jennifer (2004). "Ada Blackjack : a true story of survival in the Arctic". National Library of Australia. New York : Hyperion. Retrieved 11 December 2018.  5. ^ "The Aqua Net Diaries: Big Hair, Big Dreams, Small Town". Barnes & Noble. Retrieved 11 December 2018.  6. ^ "Velva Jean Series". PenguinRandomhouse.com. Retrieved 11 December 2018.  7. ^ "All the Bright Places by Jennifer Niven – review". The Guardian. 23 January 2016. Retrieved 11 December 2018.  8. ^ "'Go Set a Watchman' among Goodreads' best books of 2015". CNN. Retrieved 11 December 2018.  9. ^ Drabble, Emily (10 July 2015). "The Guardian children's fiction award 2015 longlist". The Guardian. Retrieved 11 December 2018.  10. ^ Shiner, Fionn (4 October 2018). "All the Bright Places casts Keegan-Michael Key, Luke Wilson and Alexandra Shipp". mirror. Retrieved 11 December 2018.  11. ^ "Netflix Film "All The Bright Places" Begins Production". New On Netflix: NEWS. 4 October 2018. Retrieved 11 December 2018.  12. ^ Niven, Jennifer (6 May 2016). "Jennifer Niven: my new book comes from my own loss and fear and pain". The Guardian. Retrieved 11 December 2018.
Jenny Downham (born 1964) is a British novelist and an ex-actress. She has published three books. The first, Before I Die, is the fictional account of the last few months of a sixteen-year-old girl who has been dying of leukaemia for four years. The book is told in the first person.     The book was short listed for the 2007 Guardian Children's Fiction Prize and the 2008 Lancashire Children's Book of the Year, nominated for the 2008 Carnegie Medal and the 2008 Booktrust Teenage Prize, and won the 2008 Branford Boase Award.[citation needed]   As the book goes on, Tessa's thoughts are used to explore the nature of life.   Downham's second novel, You Against Me, was published in December 2010. The book is powerful novel about family, loyalty, and the choices which we have to make.   Her third novel, Unbecoming, published in 2015, is a story of three generations of women and the uncovering of family secrets.   In 1998, Downham played Anna, the Ralph's Wife in Basil.[citation needed]   Now Is Good is a 2012 film based on Downham's novel Before I Die, and stars Dakota Fanning and Jeremy Irvine  References    1. ^ You Against Me: Amazon.co.uk: Jenny Downham: Books. Amazon.co.uk. Retrieved 10 August 2011.  External links    - Children's literature portal   -  Works by or about Jenny Downham in libraries (Worldcat catalogue) - Guardian Review - New York Times Review - The Times Feature - Meet the Author Video - Jenny Downham at Library of Congress Authorities, with 2 catalogue records - Jenny Downham at Fantastic Fiction      This article about a novelist from the United Kingdom is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
Jenny Han (born September 3, 1980) is a Korean-American author of young adult fiction and children's fiction. She is best known for writing The Summer I Turned Pretty trilogy and the To All the Boys I've Loved Before series, the latter of which was adapted into a film of the same name in 2018 starring Lana Condor and Noah Centineo.
Jerry Spinelli (born February 1, 1941) is an American writer of children's novels that feature adolescence and early adulthood. He is best known for Maniac Magee, Stargirl and Wringer.
Jessica Rowley Pell Bird Blakemore is a #1 New York Times bestselling American novelist. Under her maiden name, Jessica Bird, she writes contemporary romance novels, and as J.R. Ward, she writes paranormal romance. She is a two-time winner of the Romance Writers of America RITA Award, once as Bird for Best Short Contemporary Romance for From the First, and once as Ward for Best Paranormal Romance for Lover Revealed.
Jiddu Krishnamurti (/ˈdʒɪduːkrɪʃnəˈmɜːrti/; 12 May 1895 – 17 February 1986) was an Indian philosopher, speaker and writer. In his early life he was groomed to be the new World Teacher but later rejected this mantle and withdrew from the Theosophy organization behind it. His interests included psychological revolution, the nature of mind, meditation, inquiry, human relationships, and bringing about radical change in society. He stressed the need for a revolution in the psyche of every human being and emphasised that such revolution cannot be brought about by any external entity, be it religious, political, or social.   Krishnamurti was born in India. In early adolescence he had a chance encounter with occultist and theosophist Charles Webster Leadbeater in the grounds of the Theosophical Society headquarters at Adyar in Madras. He was subsequently raised under the tutelage of Annie Besant and Leadbeater, leaders of the Society at the time, who believed him to be a 'vehicle' for an expected World Teacher. As a young man, he disavowed this idea and dissolved the Order of the Star in the East, an organisation that had been established to support it.   Krishnamurti said he had no allegiance to any nationality, caste, religion, or philosophy, and spent the rest of his life travelling the world, speaking to large and small groups and individuals. He wrote many books, among them The First and Last Freedom, The Only Revolution, and Krishnamurti's Notebook. Many of his talks and discussions have been published. His last public talk was in Madras, India, in January 1986, a month before his death at his home in Ojai, California. His supporters — working through non-profit foundations in India, Great Britain and the United States — oversee several independent schools based on his views on education. They continue to transcribe and distribute his thousands of talks, group and individual discussions, and writings by use of a variety of media formats and languages.   Krishnamurti was unrelated to his contemporary U. G. Krishnamurti (1918–2007), although the two men had a number of meetings.
Jim Butcher (born October 26, 1971) is an American author best known for his contemporary fantasy book series The Dresden Files. He is also the author of the Codex Alera series, and the Cinder Spires series.
Joan Didion (/ˈdɪdiən/; born December 5, 1934) is an American journalist and writer of novels, screenplays, and autobiographical works. Didion is best known for her literary journalism and memoirs. In her novels and essays, Didion explores the disintegration of American morals and cultural chaos; the overriding theme of her work is individual and social fragmentation.   At the peak of Didion's career, her writing was recognized for its significance in defining and observing American subcultures for mainstream audiences. In 1968, The New York Times referred to her early work as containing "grace, sophistication, nuance,  irony." In 2005, she won the National Book Award for Nonfiction and was a finalist for both the National Book Critics Circle Award and the Pulitzer Prize for Biography/Autobiography for The Year of Magical Thinking. She later adapted the book into a play, which premiered on Broadway in 2007.   In 2017, Didion was profiled in the Netflix documentary The Center Will Not Hold, directed by her nephew Griffin Dunne.
Joanne Rowling CH, OBE, FRSL, FRCPE, FRSE, (/ˈroʊlɪŋ/ "rolling"; born 31 July 1965), writing under the pen names J. K. Rowling and Robert Galbraith, is a British novelist, philanthropist, film producer, television producer and screenwriter, best known for writing the Harry Potter fantasy series. The books have won multiple awards, and sold more than 500 million copies, becoming the best-selling book series in history. They have also been the basis for a film series, over which Rowling had overall approval on the scripts and was a producer on the final films in the series.   Born in Yate, Gloucestershire, England, Rowling was working as a researcher and bilingual secretary for Amnesty International when she conceived the idea for the Harry Potter series while on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990. The seven-year period that followed saw the death of her mother, birth of her first child, divorce from her first husband and relative poverty until the first novel in the series, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, was published in 1997. There were six sequels, of which the last, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, was released in 2007. Since then, Rowling has written five books for adult readers: The Casual Vacancy (2012) and—under the pseudonym Robert Galbraith—the crime fiction novels The Cuckoo's Calling (2013), The Silkworm (2014), Career of Evil (2015), and Lethal White (2018).   Rowling has lived a "rags to riches" life story, in which she progressed from living on state benefits to being the world's first billionaire author. She lost her billionaire status after giving away much of her earnings to charity, but remains one of the wealthiest people in the world. She is the United Kingdom's bestselling living author, with sales in excess of £238M. The 2016 Sunday Times Rich List estimated Rowling's fortune at £600 million, ranking her as the joint 197th richest person in the UK. Time named her a runner-up for its 2007 Person of the Year, noting the social, moral, and political inspiration she has given her fans. In October 2010, Rowling was named the "Most Influential Woman in Britain" by leading magazine editors. She has supported charities, including Comic Relief, One Parent Families and Multiple Sclerosis Society of Great Britain, and launched her own charity, Lumos.
Joan RiversRivers in 2010BornJoan Alexandra Molinsky (1933-06-08)June 8, 1933 Brooklyn, New York, U.S.DiedSeptember 4, 2014(2014-09-04) (aged 81) Manhattan, New York, U.S.Resting placeAshes scattered in WyomingAlma materBarnard CollegeOccupationComedian, actress, writer, producer, television hostYears active1959–2014Spouse(s)James Sanger (m. 1955; annulled 1955) Edgar Rosenberg (m. 1965; died 1987)ChildrenMelissa RiversComedy careerMediumStand-up, film, television, theatre, literatureGenresObservational comedy, insult comedy, shock comedy, black comedy, blue comedy, improvisational comedyWebsiteJoanRivers.com   Joan Alexandra Molinsky (June 8, 1933 – September 4, 2014), known professionally as Joan Rivers, was an American comedian, actress, writer, producer, and television host. She was noted for her often controversial comedic persona—heavily self-deprecating or sharply acerbic, especially toward celebrities and politicians.   Rivers rose to prominence in 1965 as a guest on The Tonight Show. Hosted by her mentor, Johnny Carson, the show established Rivers' comedic style. In 1986, with her own rival program, The Late Show with Joan Rivers, Rivers became the first woman to host a late night network television talk show. She subsequently hosted The Joan Rivers Show (1989–1993), winning a Daytime Emmy for Outstanding Talk Show Host. From the mid-1990s, she became known for her comedic red carpet awards show celebrity interviews, and in 2009, she was the Celebrity Apprentice Winner. Rivers co-hosted the E! celebrity fashion show Fashion Police from 2010 to 2014 and starred in the reality series Joan & Melissa: Joan Knows Best? (2011–2014) with daughter Melissa Rivers. She was the subject of the documentary Joan Rivers: A Piece of Work (2010).   In addition to marketing a line of jewelry and apparel on the QVC shopping channel, Rivers authored 12 best-selling books and three LP comedy albums under her own name: Mr. Phyllis And Other Funny Stories (Warner Bros 1965), The Next To Last Joan Rivers Album (Buddah 1969), and What Becomes A Semi-Legend Most? (Geffen 1983). She was nominated in 1984 for a Grammy Award for her album What Becomes a Semi-Legend Most?; and was nominated in 1994 for the Tony Award for Best Actress in a Play for her performance of the title role in Sally Marr ... and Her Escorts. In 2015, Rivers posthumously received a Grammy Award for Best Spoken Word Album for her book, Diary of a Mad Diva.   In 1968, The New York Times television critic Jack Gould called Rivers "quite possibly the most intuitively funny woman alive". In 2017, Rolling Stone magazine ranked her sixth on its list of the 50 best stand-up comics of all time, and in October the same year, she was inducted into the Television Academy Hall of Fame.
Joe Hill (Gävle, Sweden, October 7, 1879 – Salt Lake City, Utah, November 19, 1915), born Joel Emmanuel Hägglund and also known as Joseph Hillström, was a Swedish-American labor activist, songwriter, and member of the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW, familiarly called the "Wobblies"). A native Swedish speaker, he learned English during the early 1900s, while working various jobs from New York to San Francisco. Hill, an immigrant worker frequently facing unemployment and underemployment, became a popular songwriter and cartoonist for the union. His most famous songs include "The Preacher and the Slave" (in which he coined the phrase "pie in the sky"), "The Tramp", "There is Power in a Union", "The Rebel Girl", and "Casey Jones—the Union Scab", which express the harsh and combative life of itinerant workers, and call for workers to organize their efforts to improve working conditions.   In 1914, John G. Morrison, a Salt Lake City area grocer and former policeman, and his son were shot and killed by two men. The same evening, Hill arrived at a doctor's office with a gunshot wound, and briefly mentioned a fight over a woman. He refused to explain further, even after he was accused of the grocery store murders on the basis of his injury. Hill was convicted of the murders in a controversial trial. Following an unsuccessful appeal, political debates, and international calls for clemency from high-profile figures and workers' organizations, Hill was executed in November 1915. After his death, he was memorialized by several folk songs. His life and death have inspired books and poetry.   The identity of the woman and the rival who supposedly caused Hill's injury, though frequently speculated upon, remained mostly conjecture for nearly a century. William M. Adler's 2011 biography of Hill reveals new information about his alibi, which was never introduced at his trial. According to Adler, Hill and his friend and countryman, Otto Appelquist, were rivals for the attention of 20-year-old Hilda Erickson, a member of the family with whom the two men were lodging. In a recently discovered letter, Erickson confirmed her relationship with the two men and the rivalry between them. The letter indicates that when she first discovered Hill was injured, he explained to her that Appelquist had shot him, apparently out of jealousy.
Johanna "Hannah" Cohn Arendt (/ˈɛərənt, ˈɑːr-/; German: [ˈaːʁənt]; Hannah Arendt Bluecher; 14 October 1906 – 4 December 1975) was a German philosopher and political theorist. Her many books and articles on topics ranging from totalitarianism to epistemology have had a lasting influence on political theory. Arendt is widely considered one of the most important political philosophers of the twentieth century.   Arendt was born in Hanover, but largely raised in Königsberg in a secular merchant Jewish culture to parents who were politically progressive, being supporters of the Social Democrats. Her father died when she was seven, so she was raised by her mother and grandfather. After completing her secondary education, she studied at the University of Marburg under Martin Heidegger, with whom she had a brief affair, and who had a lasting influence on her thinking. She obtained her doctorate in philosophy in 1929 at the University of Heidelberg with Karl Jaspers.   Hannah Arendt married Günther Stern in 1929, but soon began to encounter increasing antisemitism in 1930s Germany. Adolf Hitler came to power in 1933, and while researching antisemitic propaganda for the Zionist Federation of Germany in Berlin that year, Arendt was denounced and briefly imprisoned by the Gestapo. On release, she fled Germany, living in Czechoslovakia and Switzerland before settling in Paris. There she worked for Youth Aliyah, assisting young Jews to emigrate to Palestine. Divorcing Stern in 1937, she married Heinrich Blücher in 1940, but when Germany invaded France in 1940 she was detained by the French as an alien, despite having been stripped of her German citizenship in 1937. She escaped and made her way to the United States in 1941 via Portugal. She settled in New York, which remained her principal residence for the rest of her life. She became a writer and editor and worked for the Jewish Cultural Reconstruction, becoming an American citizen in 1950. With the appearance of The Origins of Totalitarianism in 1951, her reputation as a thinker and writer was established and a series of seminal works followed. These included The Human Condition in 1958, and both Eichmann in Jerusalem and On Revolution in 1963. She taught at many American universities, while declining tenure-track appointments. She died suddenly from a heart attack in 1975, at the age of 69, leaving her last work, The Life of the Mind, unfinished.
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (/ˈɡɜːrtə/; German: [ˈjoːhan ˈvɔlfɡaŋ fɔn ˈɡøːtə] (; 28 August 1749 – 22 March 1832) was a German writer and statesman. His works include four novels; epic and lyric poetry; prose and verse dramas; memoirs; an autobiography; literary and aesthetic criticism; and treatises on botany, anatomy, and colour. In addition, there are numerous literary and scientific fragments, more than 10,000 letters, and nearly 3,000 drawings by him extant.   A literary celebrity by the age of 25, Goethe was ennobled by the Duke of Saxe-Weimar, Karl August, in 1782 after taking up residence there in November 1775 following the success of his first novel, The Sorrows of Young Werther (1774). He was an early participant in the Sturm und Drang literary movement. During his first ten years in Weimar, Goethe was a member of the Duke's privy council, sat on the war and highway commissions, oversaw the reopening of silver mines in nearby Ilmenau, and implemented a series of administrative reforms at the University of Jena. He also contributed to the planning of Weimar's botanical park and the rebuilding of its Ducal Palace, which in 1998 were together designated a UNESCO World Heritage site under the name Classical Weimar.   Goethe's first major scientific work, the Metamorphosis of Plants, was published after he returned from a 1788 tour of Italy. In 1791, he was made managing director of the theatre at Weimar, and in 1794 he began a friendship with the dramatist, historian, and philosopher Friedrich Schiller, whose plays he premiered until Schiller's death in 1805. During this period, Goethe published his second novel, Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship; the verse epic Hermann and Dorothea, and, in 1808, the first part of his most celebrated drama, Faust. His conversations and various common undertakings throughout the 1790s with Schiller, Johann Gottlieb Fichte, Johann Gottfried Herder, Alexander von Humboldt, Wilhelm von Humboldt, and August and Friedrich Schlegel have come to be collectively termed Weimar Classicism.   The German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer named Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship one of the four greatest novels ever written (along with Tristram Shandy, La Nouvelle Héloïse, and Don Quixote), while the American philosopher and essayist Ralph Waldo Emerson selected Goethe as one of six "representative men" in his work of the same name (along with Plato, Emanuel Swedenborg, Montaigne, Napoleon, and Shakespeare). Goethe's comments and observations form the basis of several biographical works, notably Johann Peter Eckermann's Conversations with Goethe.
John Adams (October 30 [O.S. October 19, 1735 – July 4, 1826) was one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. He served as the first vice president (1789–1797) and second president of the United States (1797–1801). He was a lawyer, diplomat, and leader of American independence from Great Britain. Adams was a dedicated diarist, and correspondent with his wife and advisor Abigail, recording important historical information on the era.   A political activist prior to the American Revolution, Adams was devoted to the right to counsel and presumption of innocence. He defied anti-British sentiment and successfully defended British soldiers against murder charges arising from the Boston Massacre. Adams was a Massachusetts delegate to the Continental Congress and became a principal leader of the Revolution. He assisted in drafting the Declaration of Independence in 1776 and was its foremost advocate in Congress. As a diplomat in Europe, he helped negotiate the peace treaty with Great Britain and secured vital governmental loans. Adams was the primary author of the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780, which influenced the United States' own constitution, as did his earlier Thoughts on Government.   Adams was elected to two terms as Vice President under George Washington. He was then elected President in 1796; during his single term, he encountered fierce criticism from the Jeffersonian Republicans and from some in his own Federalist Party, led by his rival Alexander Hamilton. Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts and built up the army and navy in the undeclared "Quasi-War" with France. The main accomplishment of his presidency was a peaceful resolution of this conflict in the face of public anger and Hamilton's opposition. He was the first president to reside in the executive mansion now known as the White House.   Opposition from Federalists and accusations of despotism from Republicans led to Adams' re-election loss to his former friend Thomas Jefferson, and he retired to Massachusetts. He eventually resumed his friendship with Jefferson by initiating a correspondence that lasted fourteen years. He and his wife generated a family of politicians, diplomats, and historians now referred to as the Adams political family, which includes their son John Quincy Adams, the sixth president of the United States. John Adams died on the fiftieth anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration of Independence, hours after Jefferson's death. Surveys of historians and scholars have favorably ranked his administration.
John Anthony Burgess Wilson, FRSL (/ˈbɜːrdʒəs/; 25 February 1917 – 22 November 1993), who published under the name Anthony Burgess, was an English writer and composer.   Although Burgess was predominantly a comic writer, his dystopian satire A Clockwork Orange remains his best-known novel. In 1971, it was adapted into a highly controversial film by Stanley Kubrick, which Burgess said was chiefly responsible for the popularity of the book. Burgess produced numerous other novels, including the Enderby quartet, and Earthly Powers. He wrote librettos and screenplays, including for the 1977 TV mini-series Jesus of Nazareth. He worked as a literary critic for several publications, including The Observer and The Guardian, and wrote studies of classic writers, notably James Joyce. A versatile linguist, Burgess lectured in phonetics, and translated Cyrano de Bergerac, Oedipus Rex, and the opera Carmen, among others.   Burgess also composed over 250 musical works; he considered himself as much a composer as an author, although he enjoyed considerably more success in writing.
John Calvin (/ˈkælvɪn/; French: Jean Calvin [ʒɑ̃ kalvɛ̃]; born Jehan Cauvin; 10 July 1509 – 27 May 1564) was a French theologian, pastor and reformer in Geneva during the Protestant Reformation. He was a principal figure in the development of the system of Christian theology later called Calvinism, aspects of which include the doctrines of predestination and of the absolute sovereignty of God in salvation of the human soul from death and eternal damnation, in which doctrines Calvin was influenced by and elaborated upon the Augustinian and other Christian traditions. Various Congregational, Reformed and Presbyterian churches, which look to Calvin as the chief expositor of their beliefs, have spread throughout the world.   Calvin was a tireless polemic and apologetic writer who generated much controversy. He also exchanged cordial and supportive letters with many reformers, including Philipp Melanchthon and Heinrich Bullinger. In addition to his seminal Institutes of the Christian Religion, Calvin wrote commentaries on most books of the Bible, confessional documents, and various other theological treatises.   Originally trained as a humanist lawyer, he broke from the Roman Catholic Church around 1530. After religious tensions erupted in widespread deadly violence against Protestant Christians in France, Calvin fled to Basel, Switzerland, where in 1536 he published the first edition of the Institutes. In that same year, Calvin was recruited by Frenchman William Farel to join the Reformation in Geneva, where he regularly preached sermons throughout the week; but the governing council of the city resisted the implementation of their ideas, and both men were expelled. At the invitation of Martin Bucer, Calvin proceeded to Strasbourg, where he became the minister of a church of French refugees. He continued to support the reform movement in Geneva, and in 1541 he was invited back to lead the church of the city.   Following his return, Calvin introduced new forms of church government and liturgy, despite opposition from several powerful families in the city who tried to curb his authority. During this period, Michael Servetus, a Spaniard regarded by both Roman Catholics and Protestants as having a heretical view of the Trinity, arrived in Geneva. He was denounced by Calvin and burned at the stake for heresy by the city council. Following an influx of supportive refugees and new elections to the city council, Calvin's opponents were forced out. Calvin spent his final years promoting the Reformation both in Geneva and throughout Europe.
John Clare (13 July 1793 – 20 May 1864) was an English poet, the son of a farm labourer, who became known for his celebrations of the English countryside and sorrows at its disruption. His poetry underwent major re-evaluation in the late 20th century: he is now often seen as one of the important 19th-century poets. His biographer Jonathan Bate states that Clare was "the greatest labouring-class poet that England has ever produced. No one has ever written more powerfully of nature, of a rural childhood, and of the alienated and unstable self."
John Corey Whaley (born January 19, 1984) is an American author of contemporary realistic novels for young adults. His debut, Where Things Come Back, was published by Atheneum Books in 2011 and Whaley won the Printz Award from the American Library Association in 2012, recognizing it as the year's "best book written for teens, based entirely on its literary merit." In 2011 the National Book Foundation named him a 5 under 35 honoree. His second novel, Noggin, was a finalist for the 2014 National Book Award for Young People's Literature.
John Dewey (/ˈduːi/; October 20, 1859 – June 1, 1952) was an American philosopher, psychologist, and educational reformer whose ideas have been influential in education and social reform. Dewey is one of the primary figures associated with the philosophy of pragmatism and is considered one of the fathers of functional psychology. A Review of General Psychology survey, published in 2002, ranked Dewey as the 93rd most cited psychologist of the 20th century. A well-known public intellectual, he was also a major voice of progressive education and liberalism. Although Dewey is known best for his publications about education, he also wrote about many other topics, including epistemology, metaphysics, aesthetics, art, logic, social theory, and ethics. He was a major educational reformer for the 20th century.   The overriding theme of Dewey's works was his profound belief in democracy, be it in politics, education, or communication and journalism. As Dewey himself stated in 1888, while still at the University of Michigan, "Democracy and the one, ultimate, ethical ideal of humanity are to my mind synonymous."   Known for his advocacy of democracy, Dewey considered two fundamental elements—schools and civil society—to be major topics needing attention and reconstruction to encourage experimental intelligence and plurality. Dewey asserted that complete democracy was to be obtained not just by extending voting rights but also by ensuring that there exists a fully formed public opinion, accomplished by communication among citizens, experts, and politicians, with the latter being accountable for the policies they adopt.
John Donne (/dʌn/ DUN; 22 January 1572 – 31 March 1631) was an English poet and cleric in the Church of England.   He is considered the pre-eminent representative of the metaphysical poets. His works are noted for their strong, sensual style and include sonnets, love poems, religious poems, Latin translations, epigrams, elegies, songs, satires and sermons. His poetry is noted for its vibrancy of language and inventiveness of metaphor, especially compared to that of his contemporaries. Donne's style is characterised by abrupt openings and various paradoxes, ironies and dislocations. These features, along with his frequent dramatic or everyday speech rhythms, his tense syntax and his tough eloquence, were both a reaction against the smoothness of conventional Elizabethan poetry and an adaptation into English of European baroque and mannerist techniques. His early career was marked by poetry that bore immense knowledge of English society and he met that knowledge with sharp criticism. Another important theme in Donne's poetry is the idea of true religion, something that he spent much time considering and about which he often theorized. He wrote secular poems as well as erotic and love poems. He is particularly famous for his mastery of metaphysical conceits.   Despite his great education and poetic talents, Donne lived in poverty for several years, relying heavily on wealthy friends. He spent much of the money he inherited during and after his education on womanising, literature, pastimes, and travel. In 1601, Donne secretly married Anne More, with whom he had twelve children. In 1615 he was ordained deacon and then Anglican priest, although he did not want to take Holy Orders. He did so because King James I persistently ordered it. In 1621, he was appointed the Dean of St Paul's Cathedral in London. He also served as a member of Parliament in 1601 and in 1614.
John Dryden (/ˈdraɪdən/; 19 August [O.S. 9 August] 1631 – 12 May  [O.S. 1 May] 1700) was an English poet, literary critic, translator, and playwright who was made England's first Poet Laureate in 1668.   He is seen as dominating the literary life of Restoration England to such a point that the period came to be known in literary circles as the Age of Dryden. Walter Scott called him "Glorious John".
John Fitzgerald "Jack" Kennedy (May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963), commonly referred to by his initials JFK, was an American politician who served as the 35th president of the United States from January 1961 until his assassination in November 1963. He served at the height of the Cold War, and the majority of his presidency dealt with managing relations with the Soviet Union. A member of the Democratic Party, Kennedy represented Massachusetts in the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate prior to becoming president.   Kennedy was born in Brookline, Massachusetts, the second child of Joseph P. Kennedy Sr. and Rose Kennedy. He graduated from Harvard University in 1940 and joined the U.S. Naval Reserve the following year. During World War II, he commanded a series of PT boats in the Pacific theater and earned the Navy and Marine Corps Medal for his service. After the war, Kennedy represented the 11th congressional district of Massachusetts in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953. He was subsequently elected to the U.S. Senate and served as the junior Senator from Massachusetts from 1953 to 1960. While in the Senate, he published his book entitled Profiles in Courage, which won a Pulitzer Prize for Biography. In the 1960 presidential election, Kennedy narrowly defeated Republican opponent Richard Nixon, who was the incumbent vice president. At age 43, he became the second-youngest man to serve as president (after Theodore Roosevelt), the youngest man to be elected as U.S. president, as well as the only Roman Catholic to occupy that office.   Kennedy's time in office was marked by high tensions with communist states in the Cold War. He increased the number of American military advisers in South Vietnam by a factor of 18 over President Dwight D. Eisenhower. In April 1961, he authorized a failed joint-CIA attempt to overthrow the Cuban government of Fidel Castro in the Bay of Pigs Invasion. He subsequently rejected Operation Northwoods plans by the Joint Chiefs of Staff to orchestrate false flag attacks on American soil in order to gain public approval for a war against Cuba. In October 1962, U.S. spy planes discovered that Soviet missile bases had been deployed in Cuba; the resulting period of tensions, termed the Cuban Missile Crisis, nearly resulted in the breakout of a global thermonuclear conflict. Domestically, Kennedy presided over the establishment of the Peace Corps and supported the civil rights movement, but was only somewhat successful in passing his New Frontier domestic policies.   On November 22, 1963, Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas, Texas. Pursuant to the Presidential Succession Act, Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson was sworn in as president later that day. Lee Harvey Oswald was arrested for the state crime, but he was never prosecuted due to his murder by Jack Ruby two days later; Ruby was sentenced to death and died while the sentence was on appeal in 1967. Both the FBI and the Warren Commission officially concluded that Oswald had acted alone in the assassination, but various groups challenged the findings of the Warren Report and believed that Kennedy was the victim of a conspiracy. After Kennedy's death, Congress enacted many of his proposals, including the Civil Rights and the Revenue Acts of 1964. Kennedy continues to rank highly in historians' polls of U.S. presidents and with the general public. His average approval rating of 70% is the highest of any president in Gallup's history of systematically measuring job approval.
John Henry Newman, Cong. Orat. (21 February 1801 – 11 August 1890) was a theologian and poet, first an Anglican priest and later a Catholic priest and cardinal, who was an important and controversial figure in the religious history of England in the 19th century. He was known nationally by the mid-1830s.   Originally an evangelical Oxford University academic and priest in the Church of England, Newman then became drawn to the high-church tradition of Anglicanism. He became known as a leader of, and an able polemicist for, the Oxford Movement, an influential and controversial grouping of Anglicans who wished to return to the Church of England many Catholic beliefs and liturgical rituals from before the English Reformation. In this the movement had some success. In 1845 Newman, joined by some but not all of his followers, officially left the Church of England and his teaching post at Oxford University and was received into the Catholic Church. He was quickly ordained as a priest and continued as an influential religious leader, based in Birmingham. In 1879, he was created a cardinal by Pope Leo XIII in recognition of his services to the cause of the Catholic Church in England. He was instrumental in the founding of the Catholic University of Ireland which evolved into University College Dublin, today the largest university in Ireland.   Newman was also a literary figure of note: his major writings including the Tracts for the Times (1833–1841), his autobiography Apologia Pro Vita Sua (1865–1866), the Grammar of Assent (1870), and the poem The Dream of Gerontius (1865), which was set to music in 1900 by Edward Elgar. He wrote the popular hymns "Lead, Kindly Light" and "Praise to the Holiest in the Height" (taken from Gerontius).   Newman's beatification was officially proclaimed by Pope Benedict XVI on 19 September 2010 during his visit to the United Kingdom. His canonisation is dependent on the documentation of additional miracles attributed to his intercession.
John Keats (/kiːts/; 31 October 1795 – 23 February 1821) was an English Romantic poet. He was one of the main figures of the second generation of Romantic poets, along with Lord Byron and Percy Bysshe Shelley, despite his works having been in publication for only four years before his death from tuberculosis at the age of 25.   Although his poems were not generally well received by critics during his lifetime, his reputation grew after his death, and by the end of the 19th century, he had become one of the most beloved of all English poets. He had a significant influence on a diverse range of poets and writers. Jorge Luis Borges stated that his first encounter with Keats' work was the most significant literary experience of his life.   The poetry of Keats is characterised by sensual imagery, most notably in the series of odes. This is typical of romantic poets, as they aimed to accentuate extreme emotion through an emphasis on natural imagery. Today his poems and letters are some of the most popular and most analysed in English literature. Some of the most acclaimed works of Keats are "Ode to a Nightingale", "Sleep and Poetry", and the famous sonnet "On First Looking into Chapman's Homer".
John Lennon MBELennon at the Montreal Bed-in, 1969BornJohn Winston Lennon (1940-10-09)9 October 1940 Liverpool, EnglandDied8 December 1980(1980-12-08) (aged 40) New York City, USCause of deathMurder by shootingResting placeAshes scattered in Central Park, New York CityNationalityBritishOther namesJohn Winston Ono LennonOccupation  - Singer - songwriter - activistYears active1957–1980Spouse(s)  - Cynthia Powell(m. 1962; div. 1968) - Yoko Ono (m. 1969)Partner(s)May Pang (July 1973 – February 1975)Children  - Julian - SeanParents  - Alfred Lennon (father) - Julia Stanley (mother)Musical careerGenres  - Rock - pop - experimentalInstruments  - Vocals - guitar - keyboards - harmonicaLabels  - Apple - Capitol - Geffen - Parlophone - PolydorAssociated acts  - The Quarrymen - The Beatles - Plastic Ono Band - Yoko OnoWebsitejohnlennon.comSignature   John Winston Ono Lennon MBE (9 October 1940 – 8 December 1980) was an English singer, songwriter, and peace activist who co-founded the Beatles, the most commercially successful band in the history of popular music. He and fellow member Paul McCartney formed a much-celebrated songwriting partnership. Along with George Harrison and Ringo Starr, the group would ascend to worldwide fame during the 1960s. After the group disbanded in 1970, Lennon pursued a solo career and started the band Plastic Ono Band with his second wife Yoko Ono.   He was born as John Winston Lennon in Liverpool, where he became involved in the skiffle craze as a teenager. In 1957, he formed his first band, the Quarrymen, which evolved into the Beatles in 1960. Lennon began to record as a solo artist before the band's break-up in April 1970; two of those songs were "Give Peace a Chance" and "Instant Karma!" Lennon subsequently produced albums that included John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band and Imagine, and songs such as "Working Class Hero", "Imagine" and "Happy Xmas (War Is Over)". After he married Yoko Ono in 1969, he added "Ono" as one of his middle names. Lennon disengaged himself from the music business in 1975 to raise his infant son Sean, but re-emerged with Ono in 1980 with the album Double Fantasy. He was shot and killed in the archway of his Manhattan apartment building three weeks after the album was released.   Lennon revealed a rebellious nature and acerbic wit in his music, writing, drawings, on film and in interviews. Controversial through his political and peace activism, he moved from London to Manhattan in 1971, where his criticism of the Vietnam War resulted in a lengthy attempt by the Nixon administration to deport him. Some of his songs were adopted as anthems by the anti-war movement and the larger counterculture.   By 2012, Lennon's solo album sales in the United States had exceeded 14 million units. He had 25 number-one singles on the US Billboard Hot 100 chart as a writer, co-writer, or performer. In 2002, Lennon was voted eighth in a BBC poll of the 100 Greatest Britons and in 2008, Rolling Stone ranked him the fifth-greatest singer of all time. In 1987, he was posthumously inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame. Lennon was twice posthumously inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame: first in 1988 as a member of the Beatles and again in 1994 as a solo artist.
John Locke FRS (/lɒk/; 29 August 1632 – 28 October 1704) was an English philosopher and physician, widely regarded as one of the most influential of Enlightenment thinkers and commonly known as the "Father of Liberalism". Considered one of the first of the British empiricists, following the tradition of Sir Francis Bacon, he is equally important to social contract theory. His work greatly affected the development of epistemology and political philosophy. His writings influenced Voltaire and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, many Scottish Enlightenment thinkers, as well as the American revolutionaries. His contributions to classical republicanism and liberal theory are reflected in the United States Declaration of Independence.   Locke's theory of mind is often cited as the origin of modern conceptions of identity and the self, figuring prominently in the work of later philosophers such as David Hume, Rousseau, and Immanuel Kant. Locke was the first to define the self through a continuity of consciousness. He postulated that, at birth, the mind was a blank slate or tabula rasa. Contrary to Cartesian philosophy based on pre-existing concepts, he maintained that we are born without innate ideas, and that knowledge is instead determined only by experience derived from sense perception. This is now known as empiricism. An example of Locke's belief in empiricism can be seen in his quote, "whatever I write, as soon as I discover it not to be true, my hand shall be the forwardest to throw it into the fire." This shows the ideology of science in his observations in that something must be capable of being tested repeatedly and that nothing is exempt from being disproven. Challenging the work of others, Locke is said to have established the method of introspection, or observing the emotions and behaviours of one's self.
John Lubbock is the name of:    - Sir John Lubbock, 1st Baronet (1744–1816) - Sir John Lubbock, 2nd Baronet (1774–1840), English banker - Sir John Lubbock, 3rd Baronet (1803–1865), English banker, barrister, mathematician and astronomer - John Lubbock, 1st Baron Avebury (1834–1913), English banker, politician, naturalist and archaeologist - John Lubbock, 2nd Baron Avebury (1858–1929), English aristocrat and banker - John Lubbock, 3rd Baron Avebury (1915–1971), English peer - John Lubbock (conductor) (active from 1967), founder and conductor of the Orchestra of St John's, Smith Square
John Michael Crichton (/ˈkraɪtən/; October 23, 1942 – November 4, 2008) was an American author, screenwriter, film director and producer best known for his work in the science fiction, thriller, and medical fiction genres. His books have sold over 200 million copies worldwide, and over a dozen have been adapted into films.   His literary works are usually within the action genre and heavily feature technology. His novels epitomize the techno-thriller genre of literature, often exploring technology and failures of human interaction with it, especially resulting in catastrophes with biotechnology. Many of his novels have medical or scientific underpinnings, reflecting his medical training and scientific background. He wrote, among other works, The Andromeda Strain (1969); Congo (1980); Sphere (1987); Jurassic Park (1990); Rising Sun (1992); Disclosure (1994); The Lost World (1995); Airframe (1996); Timeline (1999); Prey (2002); State of Fear (2004); and Next (2006). Films he wrote and directed included Westworld (1973), Coma (1978), The Great Train Robbery (1979), Looker (1981), and Runaway (1984).
John Milton (9 December 1608 – 8 November 1674) was an English poet, polemicist, man of letters, and civil servant for the Commonwealth of England under its Council of State and later under Oliver Cromwell. He wrote at a time of religious flux and political upheaval, and is best known for his epic poem Paradise Lost (1667), written in blank verse.   Writing in English, Latin, Greek, and Italian, he achieved international renown within his lifetime, and his celebrated Areopagitica (1644), written in condemnation of pre-publication censorship, is among history's most influential and impassioned defences of free speech and freedom of the press. His desire for freedom extended into his style: he introduced new words (coined from Latin) to the English language, and was the first modern writer to employ non-rhymed verse outside of the theatre or translations.   William Hayley's 1796 biography called him the "greatest English author", and he remains generally regarded "as one of the preeminent writers in the English language", though critical reception has oscillated in the centuries since his death (often on account of his republicanism). Samuel Johnson praised Paradise Lost as "a poem which...with respect to design may claim the first place, and with respect to performance, the second, among the productions of the human mind", though he (a Tory and recipient of royal patronage) described Milton's politics as those of an "acrimonious and surly republican". Poets such as William Blake, William Wordsworth and Thomas Hardy revered him.
John Muir (/mjʊər/; April 21, 1838 – December 24, 1914) also known as "John of the Mountains" and "Father of the National Parks", was an influential Scottish-American:42 naturalist, author, environmental philosopher, glaciologist, and early advocate for the preservation of wilderness in the United States of America.   His letters, essays, and books describing his adventures in nature, especially in the Sierra Nevada, have been read by millions. His activism has helped to preserve the Yosemite Valley, Sequoia National Park and many other wilderness areas. The Sierra Club, which he co-founded, is a prominent American conservation organization. The 211-mile (340 km) John Muir Trail, a hiking trail in the Sierra Nevada, was named in his honor. Other such places include Muir Woods National Monument, Muir Beach, John Muir College, John Muir Charter School, Mount Muir, Camp Muir, Muir Grove, and Muir Glacier. In Scotland, the John Muir Way, a 130-mile-long route, was named in honor of him.   In his later life, Muir devoted most of his time to the preservation of the Western forests. As part of the campaign to make Yosemite a national park, Muir published two landmark articles on wilderness preservation in The Century Magazine, "The Treasures of the Yosemite" and "Features of the Proposed Yosemite National Park"; this helped support the push for U.S. Congress to pass a bill in 1890 establishing Yosemite National Park. The spiritual quality and enthusiasm toward nature expressed in his writings has inspired readers, including presidents and congressmen, to take action to help preserve large nature areas.   John Muir has been considered "an inspiration to both Scots and Americans". Muir's biographer, Steven J. Holmes, believes that Muir has become "one of the patron saints of twentieth-century American environmental activity," both political and recreational. As a result, his writings are commonly discussed in books and journals, and he is often quoted by nature photographers such as Ansel Adams. "Muir has profoundly shaped the very categories through which Americans understand and envision their relationships with the natural world," writes Holmes.   Muir was noted for being an ecological thinker, political spokesman, and religious prophet, whose writings became a personal guide into nature for countless individuals, making his name "almost ubiquitous" in the modern environmental consciousness. According to author William Anderson, Muir exemplified "the archetype of our oneness with the earth", while biographer Donald Worster says he believed his mission was "saving the American soul from total surrender to materialism.":403 On April 21, 2013, the first ever John Muir Day was celebrated in Scotland, which marked the 175th anniversary of his birth, paying homage to the conservationist.
John O'Donohue (1 January 1956 – 4 January 2008) was an Irish poet, author, priest, and Hegelian philosopher. He was a native Irish speaker, and as an author is best known for popularising Celtic spirituality.
John Ortberg, Jr. (born May 5, 1957) is an evangelical Christian author, speaker, and senior pastor of Menlo Church in Menlo Park, California, an ECO Presbyterian church with more than 4,000 members. Ortberg has published many books including the 2008 ECPA Christian Book Award winner When the Game is Over, It All Goes Back in the Box, and the 2002 Christianity Today Book Award winner If You Want to Walk on Water, You've Got to Get Out of the Boat. Another of his publications, The Life You've Always Wanted, has sold more than 500,000 copies as of 2008. On August 13, 2012, John Ortberg's book Who Is This Man? debuted at #3 on the New Release chart at Amazon.com.
John Ruskin (8 February 1819 – 20 January 1900) was the leading English art critic of the Victorian era, as well as an art patron, draughtsman, watercolourist, a prominent social thinker and philanthropist. He wrote on subjects as varied as geology, architecture, myth, ornithology, literature, education, botany and political economy.   His writing styles and literary forms were equally varied. He penned essays and treatises, poetry and lectures, travel guides and manuals, letters and even a fairy tale. He also made detailed sketches and paintings of rocks, plants, birds, landscapes, and architectural structures and ornamentation.   The elaborate style that characterised his earliest writing on art gave way in time to plainer language designed to communicate his ideas more effectively. In all of his writing, he emphasised the connections between nature, art and society.   He was hugely influential in the latter half of the 19th century and up to the First World War. After a period of relative decline, his reputation has steadily improved since the 1960s with the publication of numerous academic studies of his work. Today, his ideas and concerns are widely recognised as having anticipated interest in environmentalism, sustainability and craft.   Ruskin first came to widespread attention with the first volume of Modern Painters (1843), an extended essay in defence of the work of J. M. W. Turner in which he argued that the principal role of the artist is "truth to nature". From the 1850s, he championed the Pre-Raphaelites who were influenced by his ideas. His work increasingly focused on social and political issues. Unto This Last (1860, 1862) marked the shift in emphasis. In 1869, Ruskin became the first Slade Professor of Fine Art at the University of Oxford, where he established the Ruskin School of Drawing. In 1871, he began his monthly "letters to the workmen and labourers of Great Britain", published under the title Fors Clavigera (1871–1884). In the course of this complex and deeply personal work, he developed the principles underlying his ideal society. As a result, he founded the Guild of St George, an organisation that endures today.
John Stuart Mill (20 May 1806 – 8 May 1873), usually cited as J. S. Mill, was a British philosopher, political economist, and civil servant. One of the most influential thinkers in the history of liberalism, he contributed widely to social theory, political theory, and political economy. Dubbed "the most influential English-speaking philosopher of the nineteenth century", Mill's conception of liberty justified the freedom of the individual in opposition to unlimited state and social control.   Mill was a proponent of utilitarianism, an ethical theory developed by his predecessor Jeremy Bentham. He contributed to the investigation of scientific methodology, though his knowledge of the topic was based on the writings of others, notably William Whewell, John Herschel, and Auguste Comte, and research carried out for Mill by Alexander Bain. Mill engaged in written debate with Whewell.   A member of the Liberal Party, he was also the second Member of Parliament to call for women's suffrage after Henry Hunt in 1832.
Jojo Moyes (born 4 August 1969) is an English journalist and, since 2002, a romance novelist and screenwriter. She is one of only a few authors to have twice won the Romantic Novel of the Year Award by the Romantic Novelists' Association and has been translated into twenty-eight languages.
Jonathan Earl Franzen (born August 17, 1959) is an American novelist and essayist. His 2001 novel The Corrections, a sprawling, satirical family drama, drew widespread critical acclaim, earned Franzen a National Book Award, was a Pulitzer Prize for Fiction finalist, earned a James Tait Black Memorial Prize and was shortlisted for the International Dublin Literary Award. His novel Freedom (2010) garnered similar praise and led to an appearance on the cover of Time magazine alongside the headline "Great American Novelist".   Franzen has contributed to The New Yorker magazine since 1994. His 1996 Harper's essay Perchance to Dream bemoaned the state of contemporary literature. Oprah Winfrey's book club selection in 2001 of The Corrections led to a much publicized feud with the talk show host. In recent years, Franzen has become recognized for his opinions on everything from social networking services such as Twitter ("What happens to the people who want to communicate in depth, individual to individual, in the quiet and permanence of the printed word?"; "the actual substance of our daily lives is total electronic distraction") to the impermanence of e-books ("All the real things, the authentic things, the honest things, are dying off.") and the self-destruction of America.
Jonathan Safran Foer (born February 21, 1977) is an American novelist. He is best known for his novels Everything Is Illuminated (2002), Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close (2005), and for his non-fiction work Eating Animals (2009). His most recent novel, Here I Am, was published in 2016. He teaches creative writing at New York University.
Jonathan Swift (30 November 1667 – 19 October 1745) was an Anglo-Irish satirist, essayist, political pamphleteer (first for the Whigs, then for the Tories), poet and cleric who became Dean of St Patrick's Cathedral, Dublin.   Swift is remembered for works such as A Tale of a Tub (1704), An Argument Against Abolishing Christianity (1712), Gulliver's Travels (1726), and A Modest Proposal (1729). He is regarded by the Encyclopædia Britannica as the foremost prose satirist in the English language, and is less well known for his poetry. He originally published all of his works under pseudonyms – such as Lemuel Gulliver, Isaac Bickerstaff, M. B. Drapier – or anonymously. He was a master of two styles of satire, the Horatian and Juvenalian styles.   His deadpan, ironic writing style, particularly in A Modest Proposal, has led to such satire being subsequently termed "Swiftian".
Jon Kabat-Zinn (born Jon Kabat, June 5, 1944) is an American professor emeritus of medicine and the creator of the Stress Reduction Clinic and the Center for Mindfulness in Medicine, Health Care, and Society at the University of Massachusetts Medical School. Kabat-Zinn was a student of Zen Buddhist teachers such as Philip Kapleau, Thich Nhat Hanh and Seung Sahn and a founding member of Cambridge Zen Center. His practice of yoga and studies with Buddhist teachers led him to integrate their teachings with scientific findings. He teaches mindfulness, which he says can help people cope with stress, anxiety, pain, and illness. The stress reduction program created by Kabat-Zinn, mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR), is offered by medical centers, hospitals, and health maintenance organizations.
Jon KrakauerKrakauer, photographed in 2009Born (1954-04-12) April 12, 1954 (age 64) Brookline, Massachusetts, U.S.Alma materHampshire CollegeOccupationWriter, mountaineerHome townCorvallis, Oregon, U.S.Spouse(s)Linda Mariam Moore (m. 1980)Writing careerPeriod1990–presentSubjectOutdoor literature   Jon Krakauer (born April 12, 1954) is an American writer and mountaineer, primarily known for his writings about the outdoors, especially mountain climbing. He is the author of best-selling non-fiction books—Into the Wild; Into Thin Air; Under the Banner of Heaven; and Where Men Win Glory: The Odyssey of Pat Tillman—as well as numerous magazine articles. He was a member of an ill-fated expedition to summit Mount Everest in 1996, one of the deadliest disasters in the history of climbing Everest.
Jon Stewart (born Jonathan Stuart Leibowitz; November 28, 1962) is an American comedian, writer, producer, director, political commentator, actor, and television host. He hosted The Daily Show, a satirical news program on Comedy Central, from 1999 to 2015.   Stewart started as a stand-up comedian but branched into television as host of Short Attention Span Theater for Comedy Central. He went on to host The Jon Stewart Show and then You Wrote It, You Watch It, both on MTV. Stewart has also had several film roles as an actor but did few cinematic projects after becoming host of The Daily Show in 1999. He was also a writer and co-executive producer of the show. After Stewart joined, The Daily Show steadily gained popularity and critical acclaim, and during his tenure, The Daily Show won 22 Primetime Emmy Awards.   Stewart is known as an outspoken, humorous critic of personality-driven media shows, in particular those of the U.S. media networks such as CNN, Fox News, and MSNBC. Critics say Stewart benefits from a double standard: he critiques other news shows from the safe, removed position of his "news satire" desk. Stewart agrees, saying that neither his show nor Comedy Central purport to be anything other than satire and comedy.[citation needed] In spite of its self-professed entertainment mandate, The Daily Show has been nominated for news and journalism awards among its accolades. Stewart hosted the 78th and 80th Academy Awards. He is the co-author of America (The Book): A Citizen's Guide to Democracy Inaction, which was one of the best-selling books in the U.S. in 2004, and Earth (The Book): A Visitor's Guide to the Human Race, released in 2010.
Jorge Agustín Nicolás Ruiz de Santayana y Borrás, known in English as George Santayana (/ˌsæntiˈænə, -ˈɑːnə/; December 16, 1863 – September 26, 1952), was a philosopher, essayist, poet, and novelist. Originally from Spain, Santayana was raised and educated in the United States from the age of eight and identified himself as an American, although he always kept a valid Spanish passport. He wrote in English and is generally considered an American man of letters. At the age of forty-eight, Santayana left his position at Harvard and returned to Europe permanently, never to return to the United States.   Santayana is popularly known for aphorisms, such as "Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it", "Only the dead have seen the end of war", and the definition of beauty as "pleasure objectified". Although an atheist, he treasured the Spanish Catholic values, practices, and worldview in which he was raised. Santayana was a broad-ranging cultural critic spanning many disciplines.
Jorge Francisco Isidoro Luis Borges Acevedo KBE (/ˈbɔːrhɛs/; Spanish: [ˈboɾxes] (; 24 August 1899 – 14 June 1986) was an Argentine short-story writer, essayist, poet and translator, and a key figure in Spanish-language literature. His best-known books, Ficciones (Fictions) and El Aleph (The Aleph), published in the 1940s, are compilations of short stories interconnected by common themes, including dreams, labyrinths, philosophy, libraries, mirrors, fictional writers, and mythology. Borges' works have contributed to philosophical literature and the fantasy genre, and have been considered by some critics to mark the beginning of the magic realist movement in 20th century Latin American literature. His late poems converse with such cultural figures as Spinoza, Camões, and Virgil.   Born in a suburb of Buenos Aires, Borges later moved with his family to Switzerland in 1914, where he studied at the Collège de Genève. The family travelled widely in Europe, including Spain. On his return to Argentina in 1921, Borges began publishing his poems and essays in surrealist literary journals. He also worked as a librarian and public lecturer. In 1955, he was appointed director of the National Public Library and professor of English Literature at the University of Buenos Aires. He became completely blind by the age of 55. Scholars have suggested that his progressive blindness helped him to create innovative literary symbols through imagination.[Notes 1] By the 1960s, his work was translated and published widely in the United States and Europe. Borges himself was fluent in several languages.   In 1961, he came to international attention when he received the first Formentor prize (Prix International), which he shared with Samuel Beckett. In 1971, he won the Jerusalem Prize. His international reputation was consolidated in the 1960s, aided by his works being available in English, by the Latin American Boom and by the success of García Márquez's One Hundred Years of Solitude. He dedicated his final work, The Conspirators, to the city of Geneva, Switzerland. Writer and essayist J. M. Coetzee said of him: "He, more than anyone, renovated the language of fiction and thus opened the way to a remarkable generation of Spanish American novelists."
Josef Pieper (German: [ˈpiːpɐ]; 4 May 1904 – 6 November 1997) was a German Catholic philosopher and an important figure in the resurgence of interest in the thought of Thomas Aquinas in early-to-mid 20th-century philosophy. Among his most notable works are The Four Cardinal Virtues: Prudence, Justice, Fortitude, Temperance; Leisure, the Basis of Culture; and Guide to Thomas Aquinas (published in England as Introduction to Thomas Aquinas).
Joseph Addison (1 May 1672 – 17 June 1719) was an English essayist, poet, playwright, and politician. He was the eldest son of The Reverend Lancelot Addison. His name is usually remembered alongside that of his long-standing friend, Richard Steele, with whom he founded The Spectator magazine.
Joseph Conrad (Polish: [ˈjuz̪ɛf ˌkɔn.rad]; born Józef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski; 3 December 1857 – 3 August 1924) was a Polish-British writer regarded as one of the greatest novelists to write in the English language. Though he did not speak English fluently until his twenties, he was a master prose stylist who brought a non-English sensibility into English literature. Conrad wrote stories and novels, many with a nautical setting, that depict trials of the human spirit in the midst of what he saw as an impassive, inscrutable universe.   Conrad is considered an early modernist, though his works contain elements of 19th-century realism. His narrative style and anti-heroic characters have influenced numerous authors, and many films have been adapted from, or inspired by, his works. Numerous writers and critics have commented that Conrad's fictional works, written largely in the first two decades of the 20th century, seem to have anticipated later world events.   Writing near the peak of the British Empire, Conrad drew, among other things, on his native Poland's national experiences and on his own experiences in the French and British merchant navies, to create short stories and novels that reflect aspects of a European-dominated world—including imperialism and colonialism—and that profoundly explore the human psyche.
Joseph Heller (May 1, 1923 – December 12, 1999) was an American author of novels, short stories, plays and screenplays. His best-known work is the novel Catch-22, a satire on war and bureaucracy, whose title has become a synonym for an absurd or contradictory choice.
Joseph Joubert (French: [ʒɔzɛf ʒubɛʁ]; 7 May 1754 in Montignac, Périgord – 4 May 1824 in Paris) was a French moralist and essayist, remembered today largely for his Pensées (Thoughts), which were published posthumously.
Joseph Rudyard Kipling (/ˈrʌdjərd/ RUD-yərd; 30 December 1865 – 18 January 1936) was an English journalist, short-story writer, poet, and novelist. He was born in India, which inspired much of his work.   Kipling's works of fiction include The Jungle Book (1894), Kim (1901), and many short stories, including "The Man Who Would Be King" (1888). His poems include "Mandalay" (1890), "Gunga Din" (1890), "The Gods of the Copybook Headings" (1919), "The White Man's Burden" (1899), and "If—" (1910). He is regarded as a major innovator in the art of the short story; his children's books are classics of children's literature, and one critic described his work as exhibiting "a versatile and luminous narrative gift".   Kipling was one of the most popular writers in the United Kingdom, in both prose and verse, in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Henry James said: "Kipling strikes me personally as the most complete man of genius, as distinct from fine intelligence, that I have ever known." In 1907, at the age of 41, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature, making him the first English-language writer to receive the prize and its youngest recipient to date. He was also sounded out for the British Poet Laureateship and on several occasions for a knighthood, both of which he declined.   Kipling's subsequent reputation has changed according to the political and social climate of the age and the resulting contrasting views about him continued for much of the 20th century. George Orwell saw Kipling as "a jingo imperialist", who was "morally insensitive and aesthetically disgusting". Literary critic Douglas Kerr wrote: "[Kipling] is still an author who can inspire passionate disagreement and his place in literary and cultural history is far from settled. But as the age of the European empires recedes, he is recognised as an incomparable, if controversial, interpreter of how empire was experienced. That, and an increasing recognition of his extraordinary narrative gifts, make him a force to be reckoned with."
Josh Billings was the pen name of 19th-century American humorist Henry Wheeler Shaw (April 21, 1818 – October 14, 1885). He was a famous humor writer and lecturer in the United States, perhaps second only to Mark Twain,[citation needed] during the latter half of the 19th century.
Jostein Gaarder (Norwegian: [ˈjuːstæɪn ˈɡoːrdər]; born 8 August 1952) is a Norwegian intellectual and author of several novels, short stories and children's books. Gaarder often writes from the perspective of children, exploring their sense of wonder about the world. He often utilizes metafiction in his works and constructs stories within stories. His best known work is the novel Sophie's World: A Novel About the History of Philosophy (1991). It has been translated into 60 languages; there are over 40 million copies in print.
Joyce Carol Oates (born June 16, 1938) is an American writer. Oates published her first book in 1962 and has since published over 40 novels, as well as a number of plays and novellas, and many volumes of short stories, poetry, and nonfiction. She has won many awards for her writing, including the National Book Award, for her novel them (1969), two O. Henry Awards, and the National Humanities Medal. Her novels Black Water (1992), What I Lived For (1994), Blonde (2000), and short story collections, The Wheel of Love (1970) and Lovely, Dark, Deep: Stories (2014) were each finalists for the Pulitzer Prize.   Oates has taught at Princeton University since 1978 and is currently the Roger S. Berlind '52 Professor Emerita in the Humanities with the Program in Creative Writing.
Joyce Meyer (born Pauline Joyce Hutchison; June 4, 1943) is an American Charismatic Christian author and speaker and president of Joyce Meyer Ministries. Meyer and her husband Dave have four grown children, and live outside St. Louis, Missouri. Her ministry is headquartered near the St. Louis suburb of Fenton, Missouri.
Judith Lewis (née Rumelt, born July 27, 1973), better known by her pen name Cassandra Clare, is an American author of young adult fiction, best known for her bestselling series The Mortal Instruments.
Judith McNaught (born May 10, 1944) is a bestselling author of over a dozen historical and contemporary romance novels, with 30 million copies of her works in print. She was also the first female executive producer at a CBS radio station.
Julia Quinn is the pseudonym used by Julie Pottinger (born Julie Cotler in 1970), a best-selling American historical romance author. Her novels have been translated into 29 foreign languages, and she has appeared on the New York Times Bestseller List 19 times. In July 2018, it was announced that her Bridgerton series of books would be adapted for Netflix by Shonda Rhimes.
Julie Garwood (born 1944 in Kansas City, Missouri) is an American writer of over twenty-seven romance novels in both the historical and suspense subgenres. Over thirty-five million copies of her books are in print, and she has had at least 24 New York Times Bestsellers. She has also written a novel for young adults called A Girl Named Summer.   Garwood's novel For the Roses was adapted for the television feature Rose Hill.
Julie Kagawa (born October 12, 1982) is an American author, best known for publishing and writing The Iron Fey Series consisting of 15 books including: The Iron King, The Iron Daughter, The Iron Queen, and The Iron Knight.
Juliet Marillier (born 27 July 1948) is a New Zealand-born writer of fantasy, focusing predominantly on historical fantasy.
Julio Cortázar, born Julio Florencio Cortázar American Spanish: [ˈxuljo koɾˈtasaɾ] (; (26 August 1914 – 12 February 1984) was an Argentine novelist, short story writer, and essayist. Known as one of the founders of the Latin American Boom, Cortázar influenced an entire generation of Spanish-speaking readers and writers in the Americas and Europe.
Juli Zeh (born 30 June 1974 in Bonn) is a German writer. Her first book was Adler und Engel (translated into English as Eagles and Angels by Christine Slenczka), which won the 2002 Deutscher Bücherpreis for best debut novel. She traveled through Bosnia-Herzegovina in 2001, which became the basis for the book Die Stille ist ein Geräusch. Her other books are Das Land der Menschen, Schilf (translated into English as Dark Matter by Christine Lo), Alles auf dem Rasen, Kleines Konversationslexikon für Haushunde, Spieltrieb, Ein Hund läuft durch die Republik and Corpus Delicti (translated into English as The Method by Sally-Ann Spencer).   Zeh lived in Leipzig from 1995, and currently resides outside Berlin. Zeh studied law in Passau and Leipzig, passing the Zweites Juristisches Staatsexamen – comparable equivalent to the U.S. bar exam – in 2003, and holds a doctorate in international law from Universität Saarbrücken. She also has a degree from the Deutsches Literaturinstitut Leipzig.  Bibliography Novels Other External links   - An interview about her social commitment, recent translated books and her recent play, Corpus Delicti, Trouw (September 2008) (in Dutch). - Interview about Corpus Delicti, the role of state observation and civil disobedience, (April 2011) (in German). - Article about the translation of Corpus Delicti as The Method (April 2012) - Juli Zeh in: NRW Literatur im Netz (in German)       This article about a German writer or poet is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
Junot Díaz (born December 31, 1968) is a Dominican-American writer, creative writing professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), and fiction editor at Boston Review. He also serves on the board of advisers for Freedom University, a volunteer organization in Georgia that provides post-secondary instruction to undocumented immigrants. Central to Díaz's work is the immigrant experience, particularly the Latino immigrant experience.   Born in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, Díaz immigrated with his family to New Jersey when he was six years old. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from Rutgers University, and shortly after graduating created the character "Yunior", who served as narrator of several of his later books. After obtaining his MFA from Cornell University, Díaz published his first book, the 1995 short story collection Drown.   Diaz received the 2008 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for his novel The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, and received a MacArthur Fellowship "Genius Grant" in 2012. Appointed chair of the Pulitzer Board in April 2018, he stepped down soon after amid controversy over allegations of sexual harassment were made by the author Zinzi Clemmons and several other female writers. The issue sparked controversy in feminist circles regarding the role of race or ethnicity in the public and media response to such allegations.
Justin Cronin (born 1962) is an American author. He has written five novels: Mary and O'Neil and The Summer Guest, as well as a vampire trilogy consisting of The Passage, The Twelve and City of Mirrors. He has won the Hemingway Foundation/PEN Award, the Stephen Crane Prize, and a Whiting Award.   Born and raised in New England, Cronin is a graduate of Harvard University and the Iowa Writers’ Workshop. He taught creative writing and was the "Author in-residence" at La Salle University in Philadelphia, PA from 1992 to 2003. He is a former professor of English at Rice University, and he lives with his wife and children in Houston, Texas.   In July 2007, Variety reported that Fox 2000 had bought the screen rights to Cronin's vampire trilogy. The first book of the series, The Passage, was released in June 2010. It garnered mainly favorable reviews.  Bibliography   - A Short History of the Long Ball (1990) - Mary and O'Neil (2001) – Winner of the PEN/Hemingway Award and The Stephen Crane Prize from Book of the Month Club - The Summer Guest (2004) - The Passage (2010) (Book 1 of The Passage Trilogy) - The Twelve (2012) (Book 2 of The Passage Trilogy) - The City of Mirrors (2016) (Book 3 of The Passage Trilogy) References    1. ^ "Justin Cronin Author Bookshelf – Random House – Books – Audiobooks – Ebooks". Random House. Retrieved May 4, 2012.  2. ^ "About the Author « The Passage by Justin Cronin". Enterthepassage.com. Retrieved May 4, 2012.  3. ^ "Justin Cronin's Vampire Trilogy Sold to Hollywood for $1.75 Million?". New York Magazine. New York: New York Media LLC. July 7, 2007. Retrieved August 24, 2010.  4. ^ FRITZ LANHAM, Copyright 2007 Houston Chronicle (July 18, 2007). "Houston novelist Justin Cronin sinks his teeth into deal – Houston Chronicle". Houston Chronicle. Retrieved May 4, 2012.  5. ^ Maslin, Janet (June 6, 2010). "Life After Apocalypse in Justin Cronin's 'Passage'". The New York Times.  6. ^ Flood, Alison (June 11, 2010). "The Passage: a post-apocalyptic vampire tale you can get your teeth into". The Guardian. London.  7. ^ "Apocalypse Wow; With big buzz around his new novel and a movie deal under his belt, Justin Cronin is lit's latest (unlikely) celebrity | Afterword | Arts | National Post". Arts.nationalpost.com. Retrieved May 4, 2012.  8. ^ [dead link]      External links   - Profile at The Whiting Foundation - An Interview with Justin Cronin at Rollins College (February 2014) - An Interview With Justin Cronin on KRUI's The Lit Show   - v - t - eThe Passage series by Justin CroninThe PassageThe TwelveThe City of Mirrors       This article about a novelist of the United States born in the 1960s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
Kabir (IAST: Kabīr) was a 15th-century Indian mystic poet and saint, whose writings, according to some scholars, influenced Hinduism's Bhakti movement. Kabir's verses are found in Sikhism's scripture Guru Granth Sahib. His early life was in a Muslim family, but he was strongly influenced by his teacher, the Hindu bhakti leader Ramananda.   Kabir is known for being critical of both Hinduism and Islam, stating that the former was misguided by the Vedas, and questioning their meaningless rites of initiation such as the sacred thread and circumcision respectively. During his lifetime, he was threatened by both Hindus and Muslims for his views.:4 When he died, both Hindus and Muslims he had inspired claimed him as theirs.(There was dispute whether to cremate or bury his corpse).   Kabir suggested that True God is with the person who is on the path of righteousness, considered all creatures on earth as his own self, and who is passively detached from the affairs of the world.   Kabir's legacy survives and continues through the Kabir panth ("Path of Kabir"), a religious community that recognises him as its founder and is one of the Sant Mat sects. Its members are known as Kabir panthis.
Kamila Shamsie (born 13 August 1973) is a Pakistani-British writer and novelist who is known for her award-winning novel Home Fire.
Karen Armstrong, OBE, FRSL (born 14 November 1944) is a British author and commentator of Irish Catholic descent known for her books on comparative religion. A former Roman Catholic religious sister, she went from a conservative to a more liberal and mystical Christian faith. She attended St Anne's College, Oxford, while in the convent and majored in English. She became disillusioned and left the convent in 1969. Her work focuses on commonalities of the major religions, such as the importance of compassion and the Golden Rule.   Armstrong received the US$100,000 TED Prize in February 2008. She used that occasion to call for the creation of a Charter for Compassion, which was unveiled the following year.
Karen Chance is an urban fantasy novelist. She grew up in Orlando, Florida. She has lived in France, Great Britain, Hong Kong and New Orleans, where she has taught history. She is currently living in DeLand, Florida.   Chance has had books on the New York Times and USAToday bestselling lists.
Karen Joy Fowler (born February 7, 1950) is an American author of science fiction, fantasy, and literary fiction. Her work often centers on the nineteenth century, the lives of women, and alienation.   She is best known as the author of the best-selling novel The Jane Austen Book Club that was made into a movie of the same name.
Karen Marie Moning is an American author. Many of her novels have appeared on the New York Times Bestseller List with Shadowfever reaching the number one position on multiple national best sellers lists. She is a winner of the prestigious Romance Writers of America RITA award for Best Paranormal Romance and is a multiple RITA nominee.
Karl Marx (German: [ˈkaɐ̯l ˈmaɐ̯ks]; 5 May 1818 – 14 March 1883) was a German philosopher, economist, historian, sociologist, political theorist, journalist and socialist revolutionary.   Born in Trier, Germany, Marx studied law and philosophy at university. He married Jenny von Westphalen in 1843. Due to his political publications, Marx became stateless and lived in exile with his wife and children in London for decades, where he continued to develop his thought in collaboration with German thinker Friedrich Engels and publish his writings, researching in the reading room of the British Museum. His best-known titles are the 1848 pamphlet, The Communist Manifesto, and the three-volume Das Kapital. His political and philosophical thought had enormous influence on subsequent intellectual, economic and political history and his name has been used as an adjective, a noun and a school of social theory.   Marx's theories about society, economics and politics – collectively understood as Marxism – hold that human societies develop through class struggle. In capitalism, this manifests itself in the conflict between the ruling classes (known as the bourgeoisie) that control the means of production and the working classes (known as the proletariat) that enable these means by selling their labour power in return for wages. Employing a critical approach known as historical materialism, Marx predicted that, like previous socio-economic systems, capitalism produced internal tensions which would lead to its self-destruction and replacement by a new system: socialism. For Marx, class antagonisms under capitalism, owing in part to its instability and crisis-prone nature, would eventuate the working class' development of class consciousness, leading to their conquest of political power and eventually the establishment of a classless, communist society constituted by a free association of producers. Marx actively pressed for its implementation, arguing that the working class should carry out organised revolutionary action to topple capitalism and bring about socio-economic emancipation.   Marx has been described as one of the most influential figures in human history, and his work has been both lauded and criticised. His work in economics laid the basis for much of the current understanding of labour and its relation to capital, and subsequent economic thought. Many intellectuals, labour unions, artists and political parties worldwide have been influenced by Marx's work, with many modifying or adapting his ideas. Marx is typically cited as one of the principal architects of modern social science.
Karl Pilkington (born 23 September 1972) is an English television presenter, author, comedian, radio producer, actor, and voice actor.   Pilkington gained prominence as the producer of Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant's radio programme on XFM. He appeared on The Ricky Gervais Show, presented the Sky travel comedy series An Idiot Abroad, and made his full acting debut (following a cameo appearance in the final episode of Extras) on Gervais' 2012 comedy-drama series Derek. Pilkington is a co-founder, along with Gervais and Merchant, of RiSK Productions, a television production company. Pilkington also starred in the Sky 1 travel documentary comedy series The Moaning of Life (2013–2015). In 2018 Pilkington starred in a new scripted comedy series, Sick of It.
Kate Chopin (/ˈʃoʊpæn/; born Katherine O'Flaherty; February 8, 1850 – August 22, 1904), was an American author of short stories and novels based in Louisiana. She is now considered by some scholars to have been a forerunner of American 20th-century feminist authors of Southern or Catholic background, such as Zelda Fitzgerald.   Of maternal French and paternal Irish descent, Chopin was born in St. Louis, Missouri. She married and moved with her husband to New Orleans. They later lived in the country in Cloutierville, Louisiana. From 1892 to 1895, Chopin wrote short stories for both children and adults that were published in such national magazines as Atlantic Monthly, Vogue, The Century Magazine, and The Youth's Companion. Her stories aroused controversy because of her subjects and her approach; they were condemned as immoral by some critics.   Her major works were two short story collections: Bayou Folk (1894) and A Night in Acadie (1897). Her important short stories included "Désirée's Baby" (1893), a tale of miscegenation in antebellum Louisiana, "The Story of an Hour" (1894), and "The Storm" (1898). "The Storm" is a sequel to "At the Cadian Ball," which appeared in her first collection of short stories, Bayou Folk.   Chopin also wrote two novels: At Fault (1890) and The Awakening (1899), which are set in New Orleans and Grand Isle, respectively. The characters in her stories are usually residents of Louisiana. Many of her works are set in Natchitoches in north central Louisiana, a region where she lived.   Within a decade of her death, Chopin was widely recognized as one of the leading writers of her time. In 1915, Fred Lewis Pattee wrote, "some of [Chopin's] work is equal to the best that has been produced in France or even in America. [She displayed] what may be described as a native aptitude for narration amounting almost to genius."
Kate Morton (born 1976) is an international bestselling Australian author. Morton has sold more than 10 million books in 42 countries, making her one of Australia's "biggest publishing exports". The award-winning author has written six novels: The House at Riverton (The Shifting Fog), The Forgotten Garden, The Distant Hours, The Secret Keeper, The Lake House, and The Clockmaker's Daughter (published in September 2018).
Kathleen Mansfield Murry (née Beauchamp; 14 October 1888 – 9 January 1923) was a prominent New Zealand modernist short story writer who was born and brought up in colonial New Zealand and wrote under the pen name of Katherine Mansfield. At the age of 19, Mansfield left New Zealand and settled in England, where she became a friend of writers such as D.H. Lawrence and Virginia Woolf. In 1917, she was diagnosed with extrapulmonary tuberculosis, that claimed her life at age 34.
Kelley Armstrong (born 14 December 1968) is a Canadian writer, primarily of fantasy novels since 2001.   She has published thirty-one fantasy novels to date, thirteen in her Women of the Otherworld series, five in her Cainsville series, two in her Rockton series, three in her Darkest Powers series, three in her Darkness Rising trilogy and three in the Age of Legends series, and three stand-alone teen thrillers. She has also published three middle-grade fantasy novels in the Blackwell Pages trilogy, with co-author Melissa Marr. As well, she is the author of three crime novels, the Nadia Stafford trilogy. She has also written several serial novellas and short stories for the Otherworld series, some of which are available free from her website.
Kendare Blake is a contemporary author of Young Adult novels. Her works include Anna Dressed in Blood, Antigoddess and Three Dark Crowns.   Her books stretch over a variety of genres, including horror, fantasy and contemporary fiction. Several of her works have been listed on the New York Times' Best Seller's List.   Her Anna Dressed in Blood duology and Goddess Wars trilogy were originally published in English by Tor Teen, while the Three Dark Crowns series is being published by Harper Teen.
Kenneth Earl Wilber II (born January 31, 1949) is an American writer on transpersonal psychology and his own integral theory, a systematic philosophy which suggests the synthesis of all human knowledge and experience.
Kevin Hearne is an American urban fantasy novelist born and raised in Arizona.   Hearne is the author of nine novels published by Del Rey in the fantasy book series The Iron Druid Chronicles, plus the 2015 Star Wars novel Heir to the Jedi. His novel Tricked made the New York Times Best Seller list. His novel Shattered was his first work released in hardcover and was on the USA Today best sellers list.   Hearne was a high school English teacher and moved to Colorado from Arizona with his wife and son. He is a graduate of Northern Arizona University.
Khaled Hosseini (Persian: خالد حسینی‎ [ˈxɒled hoˈsejni]; /ˈhɑːlɛd hoʊˈseɪni/; born March 4, 1965) is an Afghan-born American novelist and physician. After graduating from college, he worked as a doctor in California, a predicament that he likened to "an arranged marriage." He has published three novels, most notably his 2003 debut The Kite Runner, all of which are at least partially set in Afghanistan and feature an Afghan as the protagonist. Following the success of The Kite Runner he retired from medicine to write full-time.   Hosseini was born in Kabul, Afghanistan. His father worked as a diplomat, and when Hosseini was 11 years old, the family moved to France; four years later, they applied for asylum in the United States, where he later became a citizen. Hosseini did not return to Afghanistan until 2001 at the age of 36, where he "felt like a tourist in  own country". In interviews about the experience, he admitted to sometimes feeling survivor's guilt for having been able to leave the country before the Soviet invasion and subsequent wars.   All three of his novels became bestsellers: The Kite Runner (2003) spent 101 weeks on The New York Times Best Seller list, four of them at number one. A Thousand Splendid Suns (2007) was a Times Best Seller for 103 weeks, 15 at number one. And the Mountains Echoed (2013) debuted near the top of the Times list and remained on it for 33 weeks until January 2014.
Khalil Gibran (/dʒɪˈbrɑːn/); sometimes spelled Kahlil; (full Arabic name Gibran Khalil Gibran) (Arabic: جبران خليل جبران‎ / ALA-LC: Jubrān Khalīl Jubrān or Jibrān Khalīl Jibrān) (January 6, 1883 – April 10, 1931) was a Lebanese-American writer, poet, visual artist and Lebanese nationalist.   Gibran was born in the town of Bsharri in the Mount Lebanon Mutasarrifate, Ottoman Empire (modern-day Lebanon), to Khalil Gibran and Kamila Gibran (Rahmeh). As a pre-teen Gibran emigrated with his family to the United States, where he studied art and began his literary career, writing in both English and Arabic. In the Arab world, Gibran is regarded as a literary and political rebel. His romantic style was at the heart of a renaissance in modern Arabic literature, especially prose poetry, breaking away from the classical school. In Lebanon, he is still celebrated as a literary hero.   A member of the New York Pen League, he is chiefly known in the English-speaking world for his 1923 book The Prophet, an early example of inspirational fiction including a series of philosophical essays written in poetic English prose. The book sold well despite a cool critical reception, gaining popularity in the 1930s and again especially in the 1960s counterculture.   Gibran is the third-best-selling poet of all time, behind Shakespeare and Laozi.
Kiera Cass (born May 19, 1981) is an American writer of young adult fiction, best known for The Selection series.
Kiersten White is an American author of fiction for children and young adults. Her first book, Paranormalcy, was published by HarperCollins in 2009.
Kim Harrison (born 1966) is a pen-name of American author Dawn Cook. Kim is best known as the author of the New York Times #1 best selling Hollows series, but she has written more than urban fantasy and has published over two-dozen books spanning the gamut from young adult, accelerated-science thriller, several anthologies, a unique, full-color world book, and has scripted two original graphic novels set in the Hollows universe. She has also published traditional fantasy under the name Dawn Cook.   The Rachel Morgan urban fantasy series is set in an alternate history in which a worldwide pandemic caused by genetically modified tomatoes led to the death of a large portion of the world's human population. Under the name of Dawn Cook, she writes the Decoy Princess and Truth series, published in the first few years of the 21st century.   Harrison has received praise from fellow authors, and has reached the #1 spot on the New York Times Best Seller list.
Kim Stanley Robinson (born March 23, 1952) is an American writer of science fiction. He has published nineteen novels and numerous short stories but is best known for his Mars trilogy. His work has been translated into 24 languages. Many of his novels and stories have ecological, cultural, and political themes running through them and feature scientists as heroes. Robinson has won numerous awards, including the Hugo Award for Best Novel, the Nebula Award for Best Novel and the World Fantasy Award. Robinson's work has been labeled by The Atlantic as "the gold-standard of realistic, and highly literary, science-fiction writing." According to an article in The New Yorker, Robinson is "generally acknowledged as one of the greatest living science-fiction writers."
Kiran Manral (born 1971) is a popular Indian author and blogger. Based in Mumbai, she published her first novel The Reluctant Detective in 2011. Karmic Kids (2015) her first non-fiction work, is an introduction to parenting based on her own experience of raising a son. Manral is also the founder of India Helps, a network of volunteers who assist disaster victims.    Biography   Born in Mumbai on 22 June 1971, Manral graduated in English from Mithibai College in 1991. After working as an advertising copywriter, she joined the news service at Mumbai's DSJ TV and went on to work as a feature writer for The Times of India and Cosmopolitan India. In 2000, she became a freelance journalist and, from 2005, a blogger creating "Thirtysixandcounting" and "Karmickids". At their height, both were considered to be among the most popular blogs in India, before she closed them down in order to devote more time to motherhood.   She then turned to writing, publishing The Reluctant Detective in 2011. Telling the humorous story of how a bored housewife confronted with successive murders becomes a detective, it received generally positive reviews. Once upon a Crush which followed in 2014 describes the romance experienced by an office girl who constantly runs into misfortunes. Manral comes up with another intriguing romance in her All Aboard (2015), this time set on a Mediterranean cruise ship. Even The Times of India recommended it as a novel which could not simply be dismissed as "chick-lit".    The same year, Manral published her first non-fiction work, Karmic Kids, describing her experience of bringing up her spirited son from childbirth to age ten. One highly positive review calls for the book "to be read by everyone", not just mothers. Set in the Himalayan foothills, her most recent novel, The Face at the Window, is in sharp contrast to her earlier works. Described as "a dark brooding story of mysterious, concealed identities", it presents the frightening experiences of a retired school teacher which begin during a violent thunderstorm.  Publications   Manral has published the following books:    - Manral, Kiran (2011). Reluctant Detective. Westland. ISBN 978-93-81626-11-5., novel - Manral, Kiran (2014). Once Upon A Crush. Leadstart Publishing Pvt Ltd. ISBN 978-93-82473-91-6., novel - Manral, Kiran (2015). All Aboard!. Penguin Books Limited. ISBN 978-93-5214-048-0., novel - Manral, Kiran (2015). Karmickids: The Story of Parenting Nobody told you!. Hay House, Inc. ISBN 978-93-84544-87-4., non fiction - Manral, Kiran (2016). The Face at the Window. Amaryllis. ISBN 978-93-81506-78-3., novel - Manral, Kiran (2018). Saving Maya. Bombaykala Books. ISBN 978-8193642856. Novel. References    1. ^ a b "About Kiran Manral". thereluctantdetectivebook. Retrieved 3 November 2016.  2. ^ "Kiran Manral Interview - Karmic Kids Book". WriterStory. Retrieved 3 November 2016.  3. ^ "Book Review: Karmic Kids". The Times of India. 27 December 2015. Retrieved 3 November 2016.  4. ^ "Kiran Manral". One and a Half Minutes. Retrieved 3 November 2016.  5. ^ "People of India - Kiran Manral". Memshahib in India. 11 June 2016. Retrieved 4 November 2016.  6. ^ "Kiran Manral". iDIVA. Retrieved 4 November 2016.  7. ^ "Book Review: The Reluctant Detective by Kiran Manral". The Hungary Reader. Retrieved 4 November 2016.  8. ^ Datta, Unmana. "The Reluctant Detective". Women's Web. Retrieved 4 November 2016.  9. ^ Chandarana, Nittal (14 May 2014). "Book review: Once upon a Crush". Verve. Retrieved 4 November 2016.  10. ^ "Book Review: All Aboard". The Times of India. 8 September 2015. Retrieved 4 November 2016.  11. ^ "Book review: Karmic Kids". The Times of India. 26 December 2015. Retrieved 4 November 2016.  12. ^ "Book Review: Himalayan Gothic". The Times of India. 22 March 2016. Retrieved 4 November 2016.
Knut Hamsun (August 4, 1859 – February 19, 1952) was a Norwegian writer, who was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1920. Hamsun's work spans more than 70 years and shows variation with regard to the subject, perspective and environment. He published more than 20 novels, a collection of poetry, some short stories and plays, a travelogue, and some essays.   The young Hamsun objected to realism and naturalism. He argued that the main object of modernist literature should be the intricacies of the human mind, that writers should describe the "whisper of blood, and the pleading of bone marrow". Hamsun is considered the "leader of the Neo-Romantic revolt at the turn of the 20th century", with works such as Hunger (1890), Mysteries (1892), Pan (1894), and Victoria (1898). His later works—in particular his "Nordland novels"—were influenced by the Norwegian new realism, portraying everyday life in rural Norway and often employing local dialect, irony, and humour.   Hamsun is considered to be "one of the most influential and innovative literary stylists of the past hundred years" (ca. 1890–1990). He pioneered psychological literature with techniques of stream of consciousness and interior monologue, and influenced authors such as Thomas Mann, Franz Kafka, Maxim Gorky, Stefan Zweig, Henry Miller, Hermann Hesse, and Ernest Hemingway. Isaac Bashevis Singer called Hamsun "the father of the modern school of literature in his every aspect—his subjectiveness, his fragmentariness, his use of flashbacks, his lyricism. The whole modern school of fiction in the twentieth century stems from Hamsun".   On August 4, 2009, the Knut Hamsun Centre was opened in Hamarøy. Since 1916, several of Hamsun's works have been adapted into motion pictures.
Kresley Cole is an American #1 New York Times bestselling author of paranormal romance and young adult novels. She has received three Romance Writers of America (RWA) RITA Awards and was inducted into the RWA Hall of Fame in 2009.
Krista Tippett (née Weedman, born November 9, 1960) is an American journalist, author, and entrepreneur. She created and hosts the public radio program and podcast On Being. In 2014, Tippett was awarded the National Humanities Medal by U.S. President Barack Obama.
Kristin Hannah (born September 25, 1960) is an American writer, who has won numerous awards, including the Golden Heart, the Maggie, and the 1996 National Reader's Choice award.[not in citation given]
Kurt Vonnegut Jr. (/ˈvɒnəɡət/; November 11, 1922 – April 11, 2007) was an American writer. In a career spanning over 50 years, Vonnegut published 14 novels, three short story collections, five plays, and five works of non-fiction, with further collections being published after his death. He is most famous for his darkly satirical, best-selling novel Slaughterhouse-Five (1969).   Born and raised in Indianapolis, Indiana, Vonnegut attended Cornell University but dropped out in January 1943 and enlisted in the United States Army. As part of his training, he studied mechanical engineering at Carnegie Institute of Technology (now Carnegie Mellon University) and the University of Tennessee. He was then deployed to Europe to fight in World War II and was captured by the Germans during the Battle of the Bulge. He was interned in Dresden and survived the Allied bombing of the city by taking refuge in a meat locker of the slaughterhouse where he was imprisoned. After the war, Vonnegut married Jane Marie Cox, with whom he had three children. He later adopted his sister's three sons, after she died of cancer and her husband was killed in a train accident.   Vonnegut published his first novel, Player Piano, in 1952. The novel was reviewed positively but was not commercially successful. In the nearly 20 years that followed, Vonnegut published several novels that were only marginally successful, such as Cat's Cradle (1963) and God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater (1964). Vonnegut's breakthrough was his commercially and critically successful sixth novel, Slaughterhouse-Five. The book's anti-war sentiment resonated with its readers amidst the ongoing Vietnam War and its reviews were generally positive. After its release, Slaughterhouse-Five went to the top of The New York Times Best Seller list, thrusting Vonnegut into fame. He was invited to give speeches, lectures and commencement addresses around the country and received many awards and honors.   Later in his career, Vonnegut published several autobiographical essays and short-story collections, including Fates Worse Than Death (1991), and A Man Without a Country (2005). After his death, he was hailed as a morbidly comical commentator on the society in which he lived and as one of the most important contemporary writers. Vonnegut's son Mark published a compilation of his father's unpublished compositions, titled Armageddon in Retrospect. In 2017, Seven Stories Press published Complete Stories, a collection of Vonnegut's short fiction including 5 previously unpublished stories. Complete Stories was collected and introduced by Vonnegut friends and scholars Jerome Klinkowitz and Dan Wakefield. Numerous scholarly works have examined Vonnegut's writing and humor.
Lady GagaGaga during an interview for NFL Network in 2016BornStefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta  (1986-03-28) March 28, 1986 (age 32) New York City, New York, U.S.Occupation  - Singer - songwriter - actress - record producerYears active2001–presentNet worthUS $275 million (February 2016 estimate)Partner(s)Taylor Kinney (2011–2016)AwardsFull listMusical careerGenres  - Pop - dance - electronicInstruments  - Vocals - pianoLabels  - Def Jam - Cherrytree - KonLive - Streamline - InterscopeAssociated acts  - Lady Starlight - Tony BennettWebsiteladygaga.com   Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta (born March 28, 1986), known professionally as Lady Gaga, is an American singer, songwriter, and actress. She is known for her unconventionality and provocative work, as well as visual experimentation. Gaga began performing as a teenager, singing at open mic nights and acting in school plays. She studied at Collaborative Arts Project 21, through New York University's Tisch School of the Arts, before dropping out to pursue a music career. After Def Jam Recordings canceled her contract, Gaga worked as a songwriter for Sony/ATV Music Publishing, where Akon helped her sign a joint deal with Interscope Records and his own label KonLive Distribution in 2007. She rose to prominence the following year with her debut album, the electropop record The Fame, and its chart-topping singles "Just Dance" and "Poker Face". A follow-up EP, The Fame Monster (2009), featuring the singles "Bad Romance", "Telephone", and "Alejandro", also proved successful.   Gaga's second full-length album Born This Way (2011) explored electronic rock and techno-pop. The album peaked atop the US Billboard 200 and sold more than one million copies in the country during its first week. Its title track became the fastest selling song on the iTunes Store with over a million downloads in less than a week. Gaga experimented with EDM on her third studio album Artpop (2013), which reached number one in the US and included the single "Applause". Her collaborative jazz album with Tony Bennett, titled Cheek to Cheek, and her soft rock-influenced fifth studio album, Joanne (2016), also topped the US charts. During this period, Gaga ventured into acting, playing leading roles in the miniseries American Horror Story: Hotel (2015–2016), for which she received a Golden Globe Award, and the critically acclaimed musical romantic drama A Star Is Born (2018). She also contributed to the latter's soundtrack, which made her the only woman to achieve five US number one albums in the 2010s. Its lead single "Shallow" topped the charts in several countries and earned Gaga her second Golden Globe Award.   Having sold 27 million albums and 146 million singles as of January 2016, Gaga is one of the best-selling music artists in history. Her achievements include several Guinness World Records, six Grammys, three Brit Awards, and an award from the Songwriters Hall of Fame and the Council of Fashion Designers of America. Gaga has been declared Billboard's Artist of the Year and included among Forbes's power and earnings rankings. She was ranked at number four on VH1's Greatest Women in Music in 2012, finished second on Time's 2011 readers' poll of the most influential people of the past ten years, and was named Billboard's Woman of the Year in 2015. She is known for her philanthropy and social activism, including LGBT rights, and for her non-profit organization, the Born This Way Foundation, which focuses on promoting youth empowerment and combating bullying.
Laini Taylor (born December 22, 1971) is an American young adult fantasy author and a finalist for the National Book Award in Young People's Literature. She is best known for the Karou or Daughter of Smoke and Bone series, whose third book appeared in 2014.   In 2017, Taylor's novel Strange the Dreamer was released. In February 2018, the novel was selected as a Michael L. Printz Honor Book. The sequel to Strange the Dreamer, titled Muse of Nightmares, was released on October 2, 2018.
Laozi (UK: /ˈlaʊˈzɪə/; US: /ˈlaʊˈtsiː/; Chinese: 老子; literally "Old Master"; also rendered as Lao Tzu (/ˈlaʊˈtsuː/ or /ˈlaʊˈdzʌ/) and Lao-Tze (/ˈlaʊˈdzeɪ/)) was an ancient Chinese philosopher and writer. He is the reputed author of the Tao Te Ching, the founder of philosophical Taoism, and a deity in religious Taoism and traditional Chinese religions.   A semi-legendary figure, Laozi was usually portrayed as a 6th-century BC contemporary of Confucius, but some modern historians consider him to have lived during the Warring States period of the 4th century BC. A central figure in Chinese culture, Laozi is claimed by both the emperors of the Tang dynasty and modern people of the Li surname as a founder of their lineage. Laozi's work has been embraced by both various anti-authoritarian movements and Chinese Legalism.
La Rochefoucauld can refer to:  People   - Ambroise-Polycarpe de La Rochefoucauld (1765–1841), soldier and minister of Charles X - Antoine de La Rochefoucauld (before 1552 – after 1569), French knight - Antoine de La Rochefoucauld (1862–1959), 19th century Rosicrucian - François de La Rochefoucauld (cardinal) (1558–1645), French cardinal of the Catholic Church - François de La Rochefoucauld (writer) (1613–1680), French author - François de La Rochefoucauld, marquis de Montendre (1672–1739) - François Alexandre Frédéric, duc de la Rochefoucauld-Liancourt (1747–1827), social reformer - François, duc de La Rochefoucauld (1765–1848) - Frédéric-Jérôme de la Rochefoucauld (1701–1757), French cardinal of the Catholic Church, Archbishop of Bourges - Frédéric Gaëtan, marquis de La Rochefoucauld-Liancourt (1779–1863), politician - Jean-Baptiste Louis Frédéric de La Rochefoucauld de Roye (1707–1746), French naval commander - Louis Alexandre de La Rochefoucauld d'Enville (1743–92), French aristocrat and politician - Maxime de la Rochefoucauld (born 1959), Canadian musician - Robert de La Rochefoucauld (1923–2012), French count and special operations executive Places   - La Rochefoucauld, Charente, a commune in the Charente département in France See also   - Duc de La Rochefoucauld - Établissement La Rochefoucauld, a school in Paris
"Last Lecture" Professor Randy Pausch dies at age 47   Pausch died from pancreatic cancer at his family's home in Chesapeake, Virginia, on July 25, 2008, at the age of 47. He is survived by his wife, Jai, and their three children, Dylan, Logan, and Chloe.  "Really Achieving Your Childhood Dreams" Main article: Really Achieving Your Childhood Dreams   Pausch delivered his "Last Lecture", titled "Really Achieving Your Childhood Dreams", at CMU on September 18, 2007. He gave an abridged version of his speech on The Oprah Winfrey Show in October 2007. The talk was modeled after an ongoing series of lectures where top academics are asked to think deeply about what matters to them, and then give a hypothetical "final talk", with a topic such as "what wisdom would you try to impart to the world if you knew it was your last chance?" Before speaking, Pausch received a long standing ovation from a large crowd of over 400 colleagues and students. When he motioned them to sit down, saying, "Make me earn it", someone in the audience shouted back, "You did!"   During the lecture, Pausch offered inspirational life lessons, and performed push-ups on stage. He also commented on the irony that the "Last Lecture" series had recently been renamed as "Journeys", saying, "I thought, damn, I finally nailed the venue and they renamed it." After Pausch finished his lecture, Steve Seabolt, on behalf of Electronic Arts—which is now collaborating with CMU in the development of Alice 3.0—pledged to honor Pausch by creating a memorial scholarship for women in computer science, in recognition of Pausch's support and mentoring of women in CS and engineering.   CMU president Jared Cohon spoke emotionally of Pausch's humanity and called his contributions to the university and to education "remarkable and stunning". He then announced that CMU will celebrate Pausch's impact on the world by building and naming after Pausch a raised pedestrian bridge to connect CMU's new Computer Science building and the Center for the Arts, symbolizing the way Pausch linked those two disciplines. Brown University professor Andries van Dam followed Pausch's last lecture with a tearful and impassioned speech praising him for his courage and leadership, calling him a role model.   The Randy Pausch Memorial Footbridge was dedicated on October 30, 2009, with Jai, Dylan, Logan, and Chloe Pausch cutting the ribbon.  The Last Lecture Main article: The Last Lecture   The Disney-owned publisher Hyperion paid $6.7 million for the rights to publish a book about Pausch called The Last Lecture, co-authored by Pausch and Wall Street Journal reporter Jeffrey Zaslow. The book became a New York Times best-seller on April 28, 2008. The Last Lecture expands on Pausch's speech. The book's first printing had 400,000 copies, and it has been translated into 46 languages. It has spent more than 85 weeks on the New York Times bestseller list, and there are now more than 4.5 million copies in print in the U.S. alone. Despite speculation that the book would be made into a movie, Pausch had denied these rumors, stating that "there's a reason to do the book, but if it's telling the story of the lecture in the medium of film, we already have that."  Media coverage   Pausch was named "Person of the Week" on ABC's World News with Charles Gibson on September 21, 2007. His "Last Lecture" attracted wide attention from the international media, became an Internet hit, and was viewed over a million times in the first month after its delivery. On October 22, 2007, Pausch appeared on The Oprah Winfrey Show where he discussed his situation and summarized his "Last Lecture". On October 6, 2007, Pausch joined the Pittsburgh Steelers for the day during their regular practice, after the organization learned that one of his childhood dreams mentioned in his "Last Lecture" was to play in the NFL. On April 9, 2008, the ABC network aired an hour-long Diane Sawyer feature on Pausch titled "The Last Lecture: A Love Story For Your Life". On July 29, 2008, ABC aired a follow-up to the Last Lecture special, remembering Pausch and his famous lecture.  Other lectures and appearances   Pausch gave a lecture about time management on November 27, 2007 at the University of Virginia, to an audience of over 850 people. In March 2008, Pausch appeared in a public service announcement video and testified before Congress in support of cancer research. On May 18, 2008, Pausch made a surprise return appearance at Carnegie Mellon, giving a speech at the commencement ceremony, as well as attending the School of Computer Science's diploma ceremony, and on May 19 Pausch appeared on the show Good Morning America. His lecture, "Really Achieving Your Childhood Dreams", was nominated at the 2007 YouTube Video Awards.   A devoted Star Trek fan, Pausch was invited by film director J. J. Abrams to film a role in Star Trek. Abrams heard of Pausch's condition and sent a personal e-mail inviting Pausch to the set. Pausch accepted and traveled to Los Angeles, California, to shoot his scene. In addition to appearing in the film, he also has a line of dialogue at the beginning of the film ("Captain, we have visual.") and donated the $217.06 paycheck to charity.  Honors   - The Pittsburgh City Council declared November 19, 2007 to be "Dr. Randy Pausch Day". - In May 2008, Pausch was listed by Time as one of the World's Top-100 Most Influential People. - Randy was named Pittsburgher of the Year 2008. - On May 30, 2008, Randy received a letter from then President George W. Bush thanking him for his commitment to the Nation's youth. - On February 4, 2009, The Walt Disney Company dedicated a tribute plaque at Walt Disney World near the "Mad Tea Party" attraction with a quote by Randy that reads "Be good at something; It makes you valuable ... Have something to bring to the table, because that will make you more welcome." - The Walt Disney Company also created the Disney Memorial Pausch Fellowship at Carnegie Mellon University, which will support two graduate students. - Per Jared Cohon's announcement on the day of the Last Lecture, a raised pedestrian bridge at CMU that connects the Gates Computer Science building and the Purnell Center for the Arts is named after Pausch, symbolizing the way he linked the two disciplines. Other publications   - Adding input and output to the transactional model (Research paper, CMU), 1988 - Dann, Wanda P.; Cooper, Stephen; Pausch, Randy (2005-07-25). Learning to Program with Alice. Prentice Hall. ISBN 0-13-187289-3. References    1. ^ a b Couric, Katie (2008-05-12). "Randy Pausch". Time. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  2. ^ "In Memoriam: Randy Pausch, Unitarian Universalist, Author of "The Last Lecture"". Archived from the original on 2009-01-14. Retrieved 2009-01-05. The family was active with the First Unitarian Church of Pittsburgh.  3. ^ a b Nelson, Valerie J. (2008-07-26). "Randy Pausch, 47; terminally ill professor inspired many with his 'last lecture'". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  4. ^ "July 25: In Memoriam: Randy Pausch, Innovative Computer Scientist at Carnegie Mellon, Launched Education Initiatives, Gained Worldwide Acclaim for Last Lecture - Carnegie Mellon University | CMU". www.cmu.edu. Retrieved 2018-12-28.  5. ^ a b "Curriculum Vitae". Carnegie MellonUniversity. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  6. ^ "Building Virtual Worlds: A Carnegie Mellon Project Course". Carnegie Mellon University. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  7. ^ Dillon, Beth A. (2007-01-25). "Carnegie Mellon's ETC Opens In Silicon Valley". Gamasutra. Retrieved 2008-09-08.  8. ^ Porter, Sabrina (2008-04-28). "Randy Pausch, beloved professor and worldwide inspiration, dies at age 47". The Tartan. Retrieved 2008-10-05.  9. ^ "ACM Award Citation / Randy Pausch". Association for Computing Machinery. Archived from the original on 2008-08-02. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  10. ^ a b c Roth, Mark (September 19, 2007). "CMU professor gives his last lesson on life". Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Retrieved 2008-07-30.  11. ^ Zaslow, Jeffrey (2007-09-20). "A Beloved Professor Delivers The Lecture of a Lifetime". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  12. ^ Pausch, Randy (December 2007). "Short Summary". Carnegie Mellon University. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  13. ^ "Dying Professor, Famous for His Last Lecture, Testifies Before Congress". The Chronicle of Higher Education. 2008-03-13. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  14. ^ Pausch, Randy; Zaslow, Jeffrey (2008-04-08). The Last Lecture. Hyperion. ISBN 1-4013-2325-1.  15. ^ a b Pausch, Randy (2008-07-25). "Randy Pausch's Update page". Carnegie Mellon University. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  16. ^ a b Plushnick-Masti, Ramit (2008-07-25). "Prof whose 'last lecture' became a sensation dies". Associated Press. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  17. ^ "Really Achieving Your Childhood Dreams". Carnegie Mellon University. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  18. ^ "Randy Pausch reprising his "Last Lecture"". Google Video. 2007-10-24. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  19. ^ a b "Confronting Death". Oprah. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  20. ^ "Professor's Full Lecture: Part 1". ABC. 2007-10-03. Retrieved 2008-09-08.  21. ^ "Carnegie Mellon Collaborates With EA to Revolutionize Computer Science Education". Carnegie Mellon Today. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  22. ^ a b Robins, Gabriel (2007-09-20). "Randy Pausch's Last Lecture". University of Virginia. Archived from the original on March 12, 2008. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  23. ^ a b Heinrichs, Allison M. (2007-09-19). "Professor diagnosed with cancer offers his final words for the CMU community". Pittsburgh Tribune-Review. Archived from the original on 2007-11-14. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  24. ^ A Beloved Professor Delivers The Lecture of a Lifetime at The Wall Street Journal, September 20, 2007  25. ^ The Professor's Manifesto: What It Meant to Readers, September 27, 2007  26. ^ Flamm, Matthew (2007-11-20). "Hyperion wins auction for The Last Lecture". Crain's New York Business. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  27. ^ "Hardcover Advice". The New York Times. 2008-06-22. Retrieved 2008-10-05.  28. ^ Wilson, Craig (2008-04-08). "Professor Pausch's life, 'Lecture' go from Web to book". USA Today. Retrieved 2008-10-05.  29. ^ "Dying Professor's Lecture of a Lifetime". ABC. 2008-03-21. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  30. ^ Schmitz, Von Gregor Peter (2007-10-01). "Ein todkranker Professor rührt Amerika". Spiegel (in German). Retrieved 2008-08-11.  31. ^ Zaslow, Jeffrey (2007-09-27). "The Professor's Manifesto: What It Meant to Readers". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  32. ^ Heinrichs, Allison M. (2007-10-04). "Dying prof tackles final dream -- the NFL". Pittsburgh Tribune-Review. Archived from the original on 2007-11-14. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  33. ^ "Randy Pausch ABC Special about the "Last Lecture", April 2008". Google Video. 2008-04-11. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  34. ^ "ABC News: Randy Pausch, Author of 'The Last Lecture,' Dies at 47". ABC. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  35. ^ Shattuck, Kathryn (2008-07-29). "What's On Today". The New York Times. Retrieved 2008-09-08.  36. ^ "Randy Pausch's Time Management lecture". Google Video. 2008-11-27. Retrieved 2007-11-27.  37. ^ "Randy Pausch: Time is All That Matters". University of Virginia Today. 2007-11-28. Archived from the original on 2012-08-05. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  38. ^ "The Pancreatic Cancer Action Network Debuts a New Public Service Announcement Featuring Carnegie Mellon Professor Dr. Randy Pausch". PR Newswire. 2008-04-22.  39. ^ ""Last Lecture" Professor Pausch Dies". CBS. 2008-07-25. Retrieved 2008-10-05.  40. ^ Chute, Eleanor (2008-07-25). "Randy Pausch, noted CMU prof, succumbs to cancer". Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Retrieved 2008-10-05.  41. ^ "SCS Commencement". Carnegie Mellon University. 2008-05-18. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  42. ^ "Randy Pausch on Good Morning America, May 19, 2008". AOL. Archived from the original on 2012-07-21. Retrieved 2008-10-05.  43. ^ "2007 Video Awards". YouTube. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  44. ^ A Final Farewell, May 3, 2008  45. ^ Pascale, Anthony (2008-01-19). "Inspirational Professor Given Part In Star Trek". TrekMovie. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  46. ^ "'Last Lecture' professor dies at 47". CNN. 2008-07-25. Archived from the original on 2008-08-04. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  47. ^ "Master Detail Report". City of Pittsburgh. 2007-11-19. Archived from the original on 2008-07-31. Retrieved 2008-08-11.  48. ^ Wander, Jonathan (2010-05-24). "Pittsburgh Magazine: Shopping, Arts, Restaurants, Health, Sports, Business, Homes, Travel, Weddings". Wqed.org. Archived from the original on September 6, 2009. Retrieved 2010-08-11.  49. ^ "RandyPauschInformation". Download.srv.cs.cmu.edu. Retrieved 2010-08-11.  50. ^ "Randy Pausch Gets a Plaque at Walt Disney World | ETC Global News". Etc.cmu.edu. 2009-02-04. Retrieved 2010-08-11.  51. ^ Disney Honors Randy Pausch With Memorial Fellowship at Carnegie Mellon University Archived 2009-05-22 at the Wayback Machine., prnewswire.com. Retrieved 2009-04-05.  External links   - Quotations related to Randy Pausch at Wikiquote - Randy Pausch's Home Page at Carnegie Mellon University - News about Randy Pausch at the University of Virginia - The Online Legacy of Professor Pausch by Tara Parker-Pope from the New York Times on July 27, 2008 - Randy Pausch's Publications on Google Scholar - Randy Pausch on IMDb  Videos   - The last lecture of Randy Pausch on YouTube - The last lecture of Randy Pausch at iTunes U - "Time Management" by Randy Pausch, November 2007 at Google Video (presentation slides) - Randy Pausch addressing the CMU 2008 graduating class - Randy Pausch on Good Morning America, May 19, 2008 - An Interview with Steve Seabolt about Randy Pausch - video[permanent dead link] audio (mp3)[permanent dead link] with John Ortberg at Menlo Park Presbyterian Church on September 12, 2008 - Randy Pausch's five second Star Trek cameo on YouTube
Laurence Overmire (born August 17, 1957, Rochester, NY) is an American poet, author, actor, educator, genealogist, peace activist, civil rights, human rights, and animal rights advocate and environmentalist.   He is the author of The One Idea That Saves The World: A Call to Conscience and A Call to Action (2012), a philosophical prose work that deals with the spiritual and moral issues that confront humankind in the 21st century. The book has been endorsed by Thom Hartmann, Bill McKibben, Raffi Cavoukian, The World Business Academy, Mona Polacca of the International Council of 13 Indigenous Grandmothers, Aaron Viles of The Gulf Restoration Network, Adele Douglass of Humane Farm Animal Care and many others.   Overmire's poetry has been widely published in the U.S. and abroad in hundreds of journals and anthologies. As an actor, he has performed on Broadway, film and television.
Lauren DeStefano is an American young adult author. She is best known for the Chemical Garden series of novels and her gallows humor.
Lauren Groff (born July 23, 1978) is an American novelist and short story writer. She has written three novels and two short story collections.
Lauren Kate is an author of young adult fiction. Her books have been translated into over thirty languages and include The Betrayal of Natalie Hargrove and Fallen, which reached number 3 on the New York Times Best Seller List for children's chapter books on January 8, 2010, remaining there throughout April 2011. Fallen's sequel Torment entered the NYT Best Seller List at number 1.
Lauren Myracle (born May 15, 1969) is an American writer of young adult fiction. She has written many novels, including the three best-selling "IM" books, ttyl, ttfn and l8r, g8r. Her book Thirteen Plus One was released May 4, 2010. Myracle's younger sister, Susan Rebecca White, writes adult fiction, including Bound South (2009), A Soft Place to Land (2010), and A Place at the Table (2013).
Lauren Oliver (born Laura Suzanne Schechter; November 8, 1982) is an American author of numerous young adult novels including Panic; the Delirium trilogy: Delirium, Pandemonium, and Requiem; and Before I Fall, which became a major motion picture in 2017. Her novels have been translated into more than thirty languages internationally. Oliver is a 2012 E.B. White Read-Aloud Award nominee for her middle-grade novel Liesl & Po, as well as author of the middle-grade fantasy novel The Spindlers.   Oliver graduated from the University of Chicago, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and also received a Master of Fine Arts degree from New York University. In 2010, Oliver co-founded Paper Lantern Lit, a literary “incubator”/ development company now called Glasstown Entertainment with Razorbill editor and poet Lexa Hillyer.
Laurie Halse Anderson is an American writer, known for children's and young adult novels. She received the Margaret A. Edwards Award from the American Library Association in 2010 for her contribution to young adult literature.   She was first recognized for her novel Speak, published in 1999.
Lawrence Kohlberg (/ˈkoʊlbɜːrɡ/; October 25, 1927 – January 19, 1987) was an American psychologist best known for his theory of stages of moral development. He served as a professor in the Psychology Department at the University of Chicago and at the Graduate School of Education at Harvard University. Even though it was considered unusual in his era, he decided to study the topic of moral judgment, extending Jean Piaget's account of children's moral development from twenty-five years earlier. In fact, it took Kohlberg five years before he was able to publish an article based on his views. Kohlberg's work reflected and extended not only Piaget's findings but also the theories of philosophers George Herbert Mead and James Mark Baldwin. At the same time he was creating a new field within psychology: "moral development". In an empirical study using six criteria, such as citations and recognition, Kohlberg was found to be the 30th most eminent psychologist of the 20th century.
Lee Jun-fan (Chinese: 李振藩; November 27, 1940 – July 20, 1973), known professionally as Bruce Lee (Chinese: 李小龍), was a Hong Kong-American actor, director, martial artist, martial arts instructor, and philosopher. He was the founder of the martial art Jeet Kune Do, one of the wushu or kung fu styles. Lee was the son of Cantonese opera star Lee Hoi-chuen. He is considered by commentators, critics, media, and other martial artists to be one of the most influential martial artists and a pop culture icon of the 20th century. He is often credited with helping to change the way Asians were presented in American films.   Lee was born in the Chinatown area of San Francisco, California, on November 27, 1940, to parents from Hong Kong, and was raised with his family in Kowloon, Hong Kong. He was introduced to the film industry by his father and appeared in several films as a child actor. Lee moved to the United States at the age of 18 to receive his higher education at the University of Washington in Seattle, and it was during this time that he began teaching martial arts. His Hong Kong and Hollywood-produced films elevated the traditional Hong Kong martial arts film to a new level of popularity and acclaim, sparking a surge of interest in Chinese martial arts in the West in the 1970s. The direction and tone of his films dramatically changed and influenced martial arts and martial arts films in the US, Hong Kong, and the rest of the world.   He is noted for his roles in five feature-length films: Lo Wei's The Big Boss (1971) and Fist of Fury (1972); Golden Harvest's Way of the Dragon (1972), directed and written by Lee; Golden Harvest and Warner Brothers' Enter the Dragon (1973) and The Game of Death (1978), both directed by Robert Clouse. Lee became an iconic figure known throughout the world, particularly among the Chinese, based upon his portrayal of Chinese nationalism in his films and among Asian Americans for defying stereotypes associated with the emasculated Asian male. He trained in the art of Wing Chun and later combined his other influences from various sources into the spirit of his personal martial arts philosophy, which he dubbed Jeet Kune Do (The Way of the Intercepting Fist). Lee held dual nationality in Hong Kong and the US. He died in Kowloon Tong on July 20, 1973, at the age of 32.
Leigh Bardugo is an American young adult and fantasy author, best known for the Six of Crows duology and the Shadow and Bone trilogy, which have sold over two million copies.
Lemony Snicket is the pen name of American novelist Daniel Handler (born February 28, 1970). Snicket is the author of several children's books, also serving as the narrator of A Series of Unfortunate Events (his best-known work) and a character within it and All the Wrong Questions. Because of this, the name "Lemony Snicket" may refer to either the fictional character or Handler.   As a character, Snicket is a harried, troubled writer and photographer falsely accused of felonies, and is continuously hunted by the police and his enemies, the fire-starting side of the secret organization Volunteer Fire Department (V.F.D.). As a child, he was kidnapped and inducted as a "neophyte" into V.F.D., where he was trained in rhetoric and sent on seemingly pointless missions, while all connections were severed from his former life, apart from his siblings Jacques and Kit (who were also kidnapped and inducted).   In the organization, he met and fell in love with a peer named Beatrice, whom he never got to marry. He was falsely accused of murder and arson after a series of unfortunate events (after which the real-world series is in some ways named). Eventually, the fallacies grew so much that The Daily Punctilio reported his death. Beatrice eventually moved on and married Bertrand Baudelaire, becoming the mother of Violet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire, the protagonists of A Series of Unfortunate Events. Fourteen years thereafter, Beatrice and Bertrand were supposedly murdered in a house fire, leaving the Baudelaire children orphaned and then pursed by Snicket’s former associate, Count Olaf. Snicket feels indebted to his former fiancée and embarks on a quest to chronicle the lives of the Baudelaire children until they become old enough to face the troubles of the world on their own.   Snicket is the subject of a fictional autobiography entitled Lemony Snicket: The Unauthorized Autobiography which contains an introduction from a fictionalized version of Daniel Handler. A pamphlet called 13 Shocking Secrets You'll Wish You Never Knew About Lemony Snicket was released in promotion of The End. Other works by Snicket include The Baby in the Manger, The Composer Is Dead, Horseradish: Bitter Truths You Can't Avoid, The Latke Who Couldn't Stop Screaming, The Lump of Coal, All the Wrong Questions and 13 Words.   In the film, Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events, Lemony Snicket is portrayed by Jude Law, who documents the events of the film on a typewriter from inside a clock tower. In the video game based on the film his voice is provided by Tim Curry. In the Series of Unfortunate Events Netflix series, Snicket is interpreted as a Rod Serling-esque omniscient narrator chronicling the events of the Baudelaire children several years after they had occurred; he is portrayed by Patrick Warburton.   The name Lemony Snicket originally came from research from Handler's first book The Basic Eight. Handler wanted to receive material from organizations that he found "offensive or funny" but did not want to use his real name, so he invented "Lemony Snicket" as a pseudonym. The name's similarity to Jiminy Cricket was "likely a Freudian slip". Handler described Jiminy Cricket as "exactly the kind of overly moralistic, cheerful narrator who I despise."
Leonard Bloomfield (April 1, 1887 – April 18, 1949) was an American linguist who led the development of structural linguistics in the United States during the 1930s and the 1940s. His influential textbook Language, published in 1933, presented a comprehensive description of American structural linguistics. He made significant contributions to Indo-European historical linguistics, the description of Austronesian languages, and description of languages of the Algonquian family.   Bloomfield's approach to linguistics was characterized by its emphasis on the scientific basis of linguistics, adherence to behaviorism especially in his later work, and emphasis on formal procedures for the analysis of linguistic data. The influence of Bloomfieldian structural linguistics declined in the late 1950s and 1960s as the theory of generative grammar developed by Noam Chomsky came to predominate.
Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci (Italian: [leoˈnardo di ˌsɛr ˈpjɛːro da (v)ˈvintʃi] (; 15 April 1452 – 2 May 1519), more commonly Leonardo da Vinci or simply Leonardo, was an Italian polymath of the Renaissance whose areas of interest included invention, painting, sculpting, architecture, science, music, mathematics, engineering, literature, anatomy, geology, astronomy, botany, writing, history, and cartography. He has been variously called the father of palaeontology, ichnology, and architecture, and he is widely considered one of the greatest painters of all time. Sometimes credited with the inventions of the parachute, helicopter, and tank, he epitomised the Renaissance humanist ideal.   Many historians and scholars regard Leonardo as the prime exemplar of the "Universal Genius" or "Renaissance Man", an individual of "unquenchable curiosity" and "feverishly inventive imagination", and he is widely considered one of the most diversely talented individuals ever to have lived. According to art historian Helen Gardner, the scope and depth of his interests were without precedent in recorded history, and "his mind and personality seem to us superhuman, while the man himself mysterious and remote". Marco Rosci notes that, while there is much speculation regarding his life and personality, his view of the world was logical rather than mysterious, although the empirical methods he employed were unorthodox for his time.   Leonardo was born out of wedlock to notary Piero da Vinci and a peasant woman named Caterina in Vinci in the region of Florence, and he was educated in the studio of Florentine painter Andrea del Verrocchio. Much of his earlier working life was spent in the service of Ludovico il Moro in Milan. He later worked in Rome, Bologna, and Venice, and he spent his last years in France at the home awarded to him by Francis I of France.   Leonardo is renowned primarily as a painter. The Mona Lisa is the most famous of his works and the most parodied portrait, and The Last Supper is the most reproduced religious painting of all time. His drawing of the Vitruvian Man is also regarded as a cultural icon, being reproduced on items as varied as the euro coin, textbooks, and T-shirts. His painting Salvator Mundi sold for $450.3 million at a Christie's auction in New York on 15 November 2017, the highest price ever paid for a work of art. Perhaps 15 of his paintings have survived. Nevertheless, these few works compose a contribution to later generations of artists rivalled only by that of his contemporary Michelangelo, together with his notebooks, which contain drawings, scientific diagrams, and his thoughts on the nature of painting.   Leonardo is revered for his technological ingenuity. He conceptualised flying machines, a type of armoured fighting vehicle, concentrated solar power, an adding machine, and the double hull. Relatively few of his designs were constructed or even feasible during his lifetime, as the modern scientific approaches to metallurgy and engineering were only in their infancy during the Renaissance. Some of his smaller inventions, however, entered the world of manufacturing unheralded, such as an automated bobbin winder and a machine for testing the tensile strength of wire. A number of his most practical inventions are displayed as working models at the Museum of Vinci. He made substantial discoveries in anatomy, civil engineering, geology, optics, and hydrodynamics, but he did not publish his findings and they had no direct influence on later science.
Lev Grossman (born June 26, 1969 in Concord, Massachusetts) is an American novelist and journalist, most notable as the author of the Magicians trilogy: The Magicians (2009), The Magician King (2011), and The Magician's Land (2014). He was the book critic and lead technology writer at Time magazine from 2002 through 2016.
Lewis Thomas (November 25, 1913 – December 3, 1993) was an American physician, poet, etymologist, essayist, administrator, educator, policy advisor, and researcher.   Thomas was born in Flushing, New York and attended Princeton University and Harvard Medical School. He became Dean of Yale Medical School and New York University School of Medicine, and President of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Institute. His formative years as an independent medical researcher were at Tulane University School of Medicine.   He was invited to write regular essays in the New England Journal of Medicine. One collection of those essays, The Lives of a Cell: Notes of a Biology Watcher (1974), won annual National Book Awards in two categories, Arts and Letters and The Sciences (both awards were split). (He also won a Christopher Award for that book.) Two other collections of essays (originally published in NEJM and elsewhere) were The Medusa and the Snail and Late Night Thoughts on Listening to Mahler's Ninth Symphony. In its first paperback edition, The Medusa and the Snail won another National Book Award in Science.   His autobiography, The Youngest Science: Notes of a Medicine Watcher, is a record of a century of medicine and the changes which occurred in it. He also published a book on etymology titled Et Cetera, Et Cetera, poems, and numerous scientific papers.   Many of his essays discuss relationships among ideas or concepts using etymology as a starting point. Others concern the cultural implications of scientific discoveries and the growing awareness of ecology. In his essay on Mahler's Ninth Symphony, Thomas addresses the anxieties produced by the development of nuclear weapons. Thomas is often quoted, given his notably eclectic interests and superlative prose style.   The Lewis Thomas Prize is awarded annually by The Rockefeller University to a scientist for artistic achievement.
Liane Moriarty (born 15 November 1966) is an Australian author. She is the older sister of author Jaclyn Moriarty.
Libba Bray (born Martha Elizabeth Bray; March 11, 1964) is an American writer of young adult novels including the Gemma Doyle Trilogy, Going Bovine, and The Diviners.   She lived in Texas until she was 26 years old. After that she moved to New York City, where she now lives with her husband and fifteen-year-old son. Her father was a preacher and her mother was a teacher.
Linus Benedict Torvalds (/ˈliːnəs ˈtɔːrvɔːldz/; Finland Swedish: [ˈliːnɵs ˈtuːrvalds] (; born December 28, 1969) is a Finnish–American software engineer who is the creator, and historically, the principal developer of the Linux kernel, which became the kernel for many Linux distributions and operating systems such as Android and Chrome OS. He also created the distributed version control system Git and the diving logging and planning software Subsurface. He was honored, along with Shinya Yamanaka, with the 2012 Millennium Technology Prize by the Technology Academy Finland "in recognition of his creation of a new open source operating system for computers leading to the widely used Linux kernel". He is also the recipient of the 2014 IEEE Computer Society Computer Pioneer Award and the 2018 IEEE Masaru Ibuka Consumer Electronics Award.
Lin Yutang (Chinese: 林語堂; pinyin: Lín Yǔtáng; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: lîm gú-tông ; October 10, 1895 – March 26, 1976) was a renowned Hokkien Chinese writer, translator, linguist, philosopher and inventor. His informal but polished style in both Chinese and English made him one of the most influential writers of his generation, and his compilations and translations of classic Chinese texts into English were bestsellers in the West.
Lionel Shriver (born May 18, 1957) is an American journalist and author who lives in the United Kingdom. She is best known for her novel We Need to Talk About Kevin, which won the Orange Prize for Fiction in 2005 and was adapted into the 2011 film of the same name, starring Tilda Swinton.
Li Qingzhao (Chinese: 李清照; pinyin: Lǐ Qīngzhào; Wade–Giles: Li Ch'ing-chao; 1084 – ca 1155/1156, alternatively 1081 – c. 1141), pseudonym Householder of Yi'an (易安居士), was a Chinese writer and poet in the Song dynasty. She is considered as one of the greatest poets in Chinese history.
Lisa Kleypas (born 1964) is a best-selling American author of historical and contemporary romance novels. In 1985, she was named Miss Massachusetts 1985 and competed in the Miss America 1986 pageant in Atlantic City.
Lois McMaster Bujold (/buːˈʒoʊld/ ( boo-ZHOHLD; born November 2, 1949) is an American speculative fiction writer. She is one of the most acclaimed writers in her field, having won the Hugo Award for best novel four times, matching Robert A. Heinlein's record, not counting his Retro Hugo. Her novella "The Mountains of Mourning" won both the Hugo Award and Nebula Award. In the fantasy genre, The Curse of Chalion won the Mythopoeic Award for Adult Literature and was nominated for the 2002 World Fantasy Award for best novel, and both her fourth Hugo Award and second Nebula Award were for Paladin of Souls. In 2011 she was awarded the Skylark Award. In 2013 she was awarded the Forry Award. In 2017 she won a Hugo Award for Best Series, for the Vorkosigan Saga.   The bulk of Bujold's works comprises three separate book series: the Vorkosigan Saga, the Chalion Series, and the Sharing Knife series.
Loretta Chase, née Loretta Lynda Chekani (born 1949) is an American writer of romance novels since 1987.
Lorien Legacies is a series of young adult science fiction books, written by James Frey, Jobie Hughes, and formerly, Greg Boose, under the collective pseudonym Pittacus Lore.
Lorin Morgan-Richards (born 16 February 1975) is an American author and illustrator, primarily of children's literature. He was also the publisher of Celtic Family Magazine, and founder of the Los Angeles St. David's Day Festival.   He is known for founding the Los Angeles St. David's Day Festival, one of the largest Welsh festivals of its kind in the United States, and founding the most widely distributed print publication based in the United States about Celtic cultures and interests. In 2014 he won the Eisteddfod Honorary Recognition for Bardic Achievements.   Morgan-Richards was born in Beebetown, Ohio and is of Welsh, Swiss (Amish) and Native American descent.
Lorrie Moore (born Marie Lorena Moore; January 13, 1957) is an American fiction writer known mainly for her humorous and poignant short stories.
Louisa May Alcott (/ˈɔːlkət, -kɒt/; November 29, 1832 – March 6, 1888) was an American novelist and poet best known as the author of the novel Little Women (1868) and its sequels Little Men (1871) and Jo's Boys (1886). Raised in New England by her transcendentalist parents, Abigail May and Amos Bronson Alcott, she grew up among many of the well-known intellectuals of the day, such as Ralph Waldo Emerson, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Henry David Thoreau, and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.   Alcott's family suffered from financial difficulties, and while she worked to help support the family from an early age, she also sought an outlet in writing. She began to receive critical success for her writing in the 1860s. Early in her career, she sometimes used the pen name A. M. Barnard, under which she wrote novels for young adults that focused on spies, revenge, and crossdressers.   Published in 1868, Little Women is set in the Alcott family home, Orchard House, in Concord, Massachusetts, and is loosely based on Alcott's childhood experiences with her three sisters. The novel was very well received and is still a popular children's novel today, filmed several times.   Alcott was an abolitionist and a feminist and remained unmarried throughout her life. She died from a stroke, two days after her father died, in Boston on March 6, 1888.
Louise Erdrich (born Karen Louise Erdrich, June 7, 1954) is an American author, writer of novels, poetry, and children's books featuring Native American characters and settings. She is an enrolled member of the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa Indians, a federally recognized tribe of the Anishinaabe (also known as Ojibwe and Chippewa).   Erdrich is widely acclaimed as one of the most significant writers of the second wave of the Native American Renaissance. In 2009, her novel The Plague of Doves was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and received an Anisfield-Wolf Book Award. In November 2012, she received the National Book Award for Fiction for her novel The Round House. She was awarded the Library of Congress Prize for American Fiction at the National Book Festival in September 2015. She was married to author Michael Dorris and the two collaborated on a number of works.   She is also the owner of Birchbark Books, a small independent bookstore in Minneapolis that focuses on Native American literature and the Native community in the Twin Cities.
Louise Penny CM (born 1958) is a Canadian author of mystery novels set in the Canadian province of Quebec centred on the work of francophone Chief Inspector Armand Gamache of the Sûreté du Québec. Penny's first career was as a radio broadcaster for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. After she turned to writing, she won numerous awards for her work, including the Agatha Award for best mystery novel of the year five times, including four consecutive years (2007–2010), and the Anthony Award for best novel of the year five times, including four consecutive years (2010–2013). Her novels have been published in 23 languages.
Louis-Ferdinand Céline (French:  () was the pen name of Louis Ferdinand Auguste Destouches (pronounced [detuʃ]; 27 May 1894 – 1 July 1961), a French novelist, pamphleteer and physician. He developed a new style of writing that modernized French literature. His most famous work is the 1932 novel, Journey to the End of the Night.   Céline used a working-class, spoken style of language in his writings, and attacked what he considered to be the overly polished, "bourgeois" language of the "academy". His works influenced a broad array of literary figures, not only in France but also in the English-speaking world and elsewhere in the Western World; this includes authors associated with modernism, existentialism, black comedy and the Beat Generation.   Céline's vocal support for the Axis powers during the Second World War and his authorship of antisemitic and pro-fascist pamphlets has complicated his legacy as cultural icon.
Luc de Clapiers, marquis de Vauvenargues (French: [vovnaʁɡ]; 6 August 1715 – 28 May 1747) was a French writer and moralist. He died at age 31, in broken health, having published the year prior—anonymously—a collection of essays and aphorisms with the encouragement of Voltaire, his friend. He first received public notice under his own name in 1797, and from 1857 on, his aphorisms became popular. In the history of French literature, his significance lies chiefly in his friendship with Voltaire (20 years his senior).
Lucy Maud Montgomery OBE (November 30, 1874 – April 24, 1942), published as L. M. Montgomery, was a Canadian author best known for a series of novels beginning in 1908 with Anne of Green Gables. The book was an immediate success. The central character, Anne Shirley, an orphaned girl, made Montgomery famous in her lifetime and gave her an international following.   The first novel was followed by a series of sequels with Anne as the central character. Montgomery went on to publish 20 novels as well as 530 short stories, 500 poems, and 30 essays. Most of the novels were set in Prince Edward Island, and locations within Canada's smallest province became a literary landmark and popular tourist site – namely Green Gables farm, the genesis of Prince Edward Island National Park. She was made an officer of the Order of the British Empire in 1935.   Montgomery's work, diaries and letters have been read and studied by scholars and readers worldwide.
Luther Burbank (March 7, 1849 – April 11, 1926) was an American botanist, horticulturist and pioneer in agricultural science. He developed more than 800 strains and varieties of plants over his 55-year career. Burbank's varied creations included fruits, flowers, grains, grasses, and vegetables. He developed (but did not create) a spineless cactus (useful for cattle-feed) and the plumcot.   Burbank's most successful strains and varieties include the Shasta daisy, the fire poppy (note possible confusion with the California wildflower, Papaver californicum, which is also called a fire poppy), the "July Elberta" peach, the "Santa Rosa" plum, the "Flaming Gold" nectarine, the "Wickson" plum (named after the agronomist Edward J. Wickson), the freestone peach, and the white blackberry. A natural genetic variant of the Burbank potato with russet-colored skin later became known as the russet Burbank potato. This large, brown-skinned, white-fleshed potato has become the world's predominant potato in food processing. The Russet Burbank potato was in fact invented to help with the devastating situation in Ireland following the Irish Potato famine. This particular potato variety was created by Burbank to help "revive the country's leading crop" as it is slightly late blight-resistant. Late blight (Phytophthora infestans) is a disease that spread and destroyed potatoes all across Europe but caused extreme chaos in Ireland due to the high dependency on potatoes as a crop by the Irish.
Lu Xun (Wade–Giles romanisation: Lu Hsün) was the pen name of Zhou Shuren (25 September 1881 – 19 October 1936), a leading figure of modern Chinese literature. Writing in Vernacular Chinese and Classical Chinese, he was a short story writer, editor, translator, literary critic, essayist, poet, and designer. In the 1930s, he became the titular head of the League of Left-Wing Writers in Shanghai.   Lu Xun was born into a family of landlords and government officials in Shaoxing, Zhejiang; the family's financial resources declined over the course of his youth. Lu aspired to take the imperial civil service exam, but due to his family's relative poverty he was forced to attend government-funded schools teaching "Western education." Upon graduation, Lu went to medical school in Japan but later dropped out. He became interested in studying literature but was eventually forced to return to China because of his family's lack of funds. After returning to China, Lu worked for several years teaching at local secondary schools and colleges before finally finding a job at the Republic of China Ministry of Education.   After the 1919 May Fourth Movement, Lu Xun's writing began to exert a substantial influence on Chinese literature and popular culture. Like many leaders of the May Fourth Movement, he was primarily a leftist. He was highly acclaimed by the Chinese government after 1949, when the People's Republic of China was founded, and Mao Zedong himself was a lifelong admirer of Lu Xun's writing. Though sympathetic to socialist ideas, Lu Xun never joined the Communist Party of China.
Lydia Davis (born July 15, 1947) is an American writer noted for literary works of extreme brevity (commonly called "flash fiction"). Davis is also a short story writer, novelist, essayist, and translator from French and other languages, and has produced several new translations of French literary classics, including Swann’s Way by Marcel Proust and Madame Bovary by Gustave Flaubert.
Madeleine L'Engle Camp (/ˈlɛŋɡəl/; November 29, 1918 – September 6, 2007) was an American writer of young adult fiction, including A Wrinkle in Time and its sequels: A Wind in the Door, A Swiftly Tilting Planet, Many Waters, and An Acceptable Time. Her works reflect both her Christian faith and her strong interest in science.
Madeleine Sophie Wickham (née Townley; born 12 December 1969), also known under the pen name Sophie Kinsella, is an English author of chick lit. The first two novels in her best-selling Shopaholic series, The Secret Dreamworld of a Shopaholic and Shopaholic Abroad, were adapted into the film Confessions of a Shopaholic (2009). Her books have been translated into over 30 languages.
Madeline Miller is an American novelist, whose debut novel was The Song of Achilles. Miller spent ten years writing the book while she worked as a Latin and Greek teacher. The novel, set in Greece, tells the story of the love between Achilles and Patroclus. The Song of Achilles won the Orange Prize for Fiction, making Miller the fourth debut novelist to win the prize.
Mahātmā Mohandas Karamchand GandhiNative nameમોહનદાસ કરમચંદ ગાંધી  (Gujarati)BornMohandas Karamchand Gandhi (1869-10-02)2 October 1869 (Gandhi Jayanti) Porbandar, Porbandar State, Kathiawar Agency, Bombay Presidency, British India (present-day Gujarat, India)Died30 January 1948(1948-01-30) (aged 78) New Delhi, Delhi, Dominion of India (present-day India)Cause of deathAssassinationResting placeRaj Ghat, Delhi, IndiaNationalityIndianOther namesMahatma Gandhi, Bapu ji, Gandhi jiAlma materUniversity College London Inner TempleOccupation  - Lawyer - Politician - Activist - WriterKnown forIndian Independence Movement, Peace movement, Nonviolent resistance, Civil resistance, GandhismOfficePresident of the Indian National CongressTerm1924–1925Political partyIndian National CongressMovementIndian independence movementSpouse(s)Kasturbai Gandhi (m. 1883; died 1944)Children  - Harilal - Manilal - Ramdas - DevdasParents  - Karamchand Gandhi (father) - Putlibai Gandhi (mother)Signature   Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (/ˈɡɑːndi, ˈɡændi/;[needs Gujarati IPA] Hindustani: [ˈmoːɦəndaːs ˈkərəmtʃənd ˈɡaːndʱi] (; 2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948) was an Indian activist who was the leader of the Indian independence movement against British rule. Employing nonviolent civil disobedience, Gandhi led India to independence and inspired movements for civil rights and freedom across the world. The honorific Mahātmā (Sanskrit: "high-souled", "venerable") – applied to him first in 1914 in South Africa – is now used worldwide. In India, he is also called Bapu (Gujarati: endearment for father, papa) and Gandhi ji, and known as the Father of the Nation.   Born and raised in a Hindu merchant caste family in coastal Gujarat, India, and trained in law at the Inner Temple, London, Gandhi first employed nonviolent civil disobedience as an expatriate lawyer in South Africa, in the resident Indian community's struggle for civil rights. After his return to India in 1915, he set about organising peasants, farmers, and urban labourers to protest against excessive land-tax and discrimination. Assuming leadership of the Indian National Congress in 1921, Gandhi led nationwide campaigns for various social causes and for achieving Swaraj or self-rule.   Gandhi led Indians in challenging the British-imposed salt tax with the 400 km (250 mi) Dandi Salt March in 1930, and later in calling for the British to Quit India in 1942. He was imprisoned for many years, upon many occasions, in both South Africa and India. He lived modestly in a self-sufficient residential community and wore the traditional Indian dhoti and shawl, woven with yarn hand-spun on a charkha. He ate simple vegetarian food, and also undertook long fasts as a means of both self-purification and political protest.   Gandhi's vision of an independent India based on religious pluralism, however, was challenged in the early 1940s by a new Muslim nationalism which was demanding a separate Muslim homeland carved out of India. Eventually, in August 1947, Britain granted independence, but the British Indian Empire was partitioned into two dominions, a Hindu-majority India and Muslim-majority Pakistan. As many displaced Hindus, Muslims, and Sikhs made their way to their new lands, religious violence broke out, especially in the Punjab and Bengal. Eschewing the official celebration of independence in Delhi, Gandhi visited the affected areas, attempting to provide solace. In the months following, he undertook several fasts unto death to stop religious violence. The last of these, undertaken on 12 January 1948 when he was 78, also had the indirect goal of pressuring India to pay out some cash assets owed to Pakistan. Some Indians thought Gandhi was too accommodating. Among them was Nathuram Godse, a Hindu nationalist, who assassinated Gandhi on 30 January 1948 by firing three bullets into his chest. Captured along with many of his co-conspirators and collaborators, Godse and his co-conspirator Narayan Apte were tried, convicted and executed while many of their other accomplices were given prison sentences.   Gandhi's birthday, 2 October, is commemorated in India as Gandhi Jayanti, a national holiday, and worldwide as the International Day of Nonviolence.
Malcolm X (1925–1965) was an American Muslim minister and human rights activist. Some saw him as a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks, a man who indicted white America in the harshest terms for its crimes against black Americans; others accused him of preaching racism and violence. He has been called one of the greatest and most influential African Americans in history.   His father was killed when he was six and his mother was placed in a mental hospital when he was thirteen, after which he lived in a series of foster homes. In 1946, at age 20, he went to prison for larceny and breaking and entering. While in prison, he became a member of the Nation of Islam (NOI), changing his birth name Malcolm Little to Malcolm X because, he later wrote, Little was the name that "the white slavemaster ... had imposed upon  paternal forebears". After his parole in 1952, he quickly rose to become one of the organization's most influential leaders, serving as the public face of the controversial group for a dozen years. In his autobiography, Malcolm X wrote proudly of some of the social achievements the Nation made while he was a member, particularly its free drug rehabilitation program. The Nation promoted black supremacy, advocated the separation of black and white Americans, and rejected the civil rights movement for its emphasis on integration.   By March 1964, Malcolm X had grown disillusioned with the Nation of Islam and its leader Elijah Muhammad. Expressing many regrets about his time with them, which he had come to regard as largely wasted, he embraced Sunni Islam. After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East, which included completing the Hajj, he also became known as el-Hajj Malik el-Shabazz.[A] He repudiated the Nation of Islam, disavowed racism and founded Muslim Mosque, Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity. He continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism, black self-determination, and black self-defense.   On February 21, 1965, he was assassinated by three members of the Nation of Islam.
Marcus Aurelius (/ɔːˈriːliəs/ or /ɑːˈriːljəs/; Latin: Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus; 26 April 121 – 17 March 180 AD), called the Philosopher, was Roman emperor from 161 to 180. He ruled the Roman Empire with his adoptive brother, Lucius Verus, until Lucius' death in 169. He was the last of the rulers traditionally known as the Five Good Emperors. He is also seen as the last emperor of the Pax Romana, an age of relative peace and stability for the Empire. Marcus' personal philosophical writings, often called Meditations, are a significant source of the modern understanding of ancient Stoic philosophy. They have been praised by fellow writers, philosophers, and monarchs–as well as by poets and politicians–centuries after his death.   Marcus was born into a Roman patrician family. His paternal great-grandfather was a senator, and Marcus' father was a praetor; both of these men, along with Marcus and his paternal grandfather, are believed to have been named Marcus Annius Verus. Marcus' mother and his maternal grandmother, both named Domitia Lucilla, were wealthy heiresses. After the death of his father in 124, Marcus was raised by his paternal grandfather and his maternal grandmother's step-father, Lucius Catilius Severus. As children from Roman aristocratic families often were, Marcus was educated at home. He later credited Catilius Severus for his education. His tutors included the artist Diognetus, who may have sparked his interest in philosophy, and Tuticius Proclus.   Following the death of Emperor Hadrian's adopted son and heir, Lucius Aelius, Hadrian adopted Antoninus Pius, the husband of Marcus' aunt, in 138; Antoninus in turn adopted Marcus and the son of Aelius, Lucius Verus. Upon Hadrian's death later that year, Antoninus became emperor and Marcus and Lucius became joint heirs to the throne. Early on as imperial heir, Marcus was taught Greek by tutors who included Herodes Atticus and Latin by Marcus Cornelius Fronto; he kept in close correspondence with the latter, even as emperor. Despite the warnings of Atticus about Stoicism, Marcus was introduced to the philosophy by Quintus Junius Rusticus and perhaps by philosophers such as Apollonius of Chalcedon. Also during his early years as heir, Marcus was made a quaestor and the symbolic head of the Roman equites (also known as the knight class). He was consul with Antoninus in 140 and 145–the year he married Antoninus' daughter Faustina the Younger, his own first cousin. Marcus took on more responsibilities of state as Antoninus aged. In 161, he served as consul again with his adoptive brother Lucius (who had previously been quaestor in 153 and consul in 154); on 7 March of that year Antoninus died and they succeeded to the imperial throne.   During Marcus' reign, Rome fought the Roman-Parthian War (161–166) which resulted in the defeat of a revitalized Parthian Empire in the East; his general Avidius Cassius sacked the Parthian capital Ctesiphon in 164. In central Europe, Marcus fought the Marcomanni, Quadi, and Sarmatians with success during the Marcomannic Wars (166–180), although the threat of the Germanic peoples began to represent a troubling reality for the Empire. He modified the silver purity of the denarius, and Roman coins found in Han China dating from the reign of Tiberius to that of Aurelian, including coins minted during the reigns of Marcus and Antoninus, are evidence that the Roman Empire traded with China during that time. The Column and Equestrian Statue of Marcus Aurelius still stand in Rome, where they were erected in celebration of his military victories. Persecution of Christians is believed to have increased during his reign. The Antonine Plague, a pandemic that broke out in 165, devastated the population of the Roman Empire; the plague caused the deaths of five million people–a quarter of those it affected–including perhaps Lucius Verus in 169. Marcus never adopted a successor unlike a number of his predecessors, because he and his wife Faustina had at least thirteen biological children. Many of their children died young (the first three–a daughter Domitia and twin sons Antoninus and Aurelius, another son Tiberius, a child of unknown name, and Fulvus–the elder twin brother of Marcus' eventually sole surviving son Commodus), but a number of their daughters are known to have survived past early childhood (Lucilla–who married Lucius Verus in 164, Faustina, Fadilla, Cornificia, and Sabina). Marcus named their two youngest sons, Commodus and Annius, as his successors in 166; upon his death in 180, he was succeeded by Commodus, who had been his co-ruler since 177.
Marcus Tullius Cicero[n 1] (/ˈsɪsəroʊ/; Classical Latin: [ˈmaːr.kʊs ˈtʊl.lɪ.ʊs ˈkɪ.kɛ.roː]; 3 January 106 BC – 7 December 43 BC) was a Roman statesman, orator, lawyer and philosopher, who served as consul in the year 63 BC. He came from a wealthy municipal family of the Roman equestrian order, and is considered one of Rome's greatest orators and prose stylists.   His influence on the Latin language was so immense that the subsequent history of prose, not only in Latin but in European languages up to the 19th century, was said to be either a reaction against or a return to his style. Cicero introduced the Romans to the chief schools of Greek philosophy and created a Latin philosophical vocabulary (with neologisms such as evidentia, humanitas, qualitas, quantitas, and essentia) distinguishing himself as a translator and philosopher.   Though he was an accomplished orator and successful lawyer, Cicero believed his political career was his most important achievement. It was during his consulship that the second Catilinarian conspiracy attempted to overthrow the government through an attack on the city by outside forces, and Cicero suppressed the revolt by summarily and controversially executing five conspirators. During the chaotic latter half of the 1st century BC marked by civil wars and the dictatorship of Gaius Julius Caesar, Cicero championed a return to the traditional republican government. Following Julius Caesar's death, Cicero became an enemy of Mark Antony in the ensuing power struggle, attacking him in a series of speeches. He was proscribed as an enemy of the state by the Second Triumvirate and consequently executed by soldiers operating on their behalf in 43 BC after having been intercepted during an attempted flight from the Italian peninsula. His severed hands and head were then, as a final revenge of Mark Antony, displayed in the Roman Forum.   Petrarch's rediscovery of Cicero's letters is often credited for initiating the 14th-century Renaissance in public affairs, humanism, and classical Roman culture. According to Polish historian Tadeusz Zieliński, "the Renaissance was above all things a revival of Cicero, and only after him and through him of the rest of Classical antiquity." The peak of Cicero's authority and prestige came during the 18th-century Enlightenment, and his impact on leading Enlightenment thinkers and political theorists such as John Locke, David Hume, Montesquieu and Edmund Burke was substantial. His works rank among the most influential in European culture, and today still constitute one of the most important bodies of primary material for the writing and revision of Roman history, especially the last days of the Roman Republic.
Margaret Astrid Lindholm Ogden (born March 5, 1952), better known by her pen names Robin Hobb and Megan Lindholm, is an American writer. She has written five series set in the Realm of the Elderlings, which started in 1995 with the publication of Assassin's Apprentice and ended with Assassin's Fate in 2017. Her books have sold over a million copies.
Marguerite Yourcenar (French pronunciation: ​[maʁɡəʁit juʁsənaʁ]; 8 June 1903 – 17 December 1987) was a French novelist and essayist born in Brussels, Belgium, who became a US citizen in 1947. Winner of the Prix Femina and the Erasmus Prize, she was the first woman elected to the Académie française, in 1980, and the seventeenth person to occupy seat 3.
Marian KeyesBorn (1963-09-10) 10 September 1963 (age 55) Limerick, IrelandOccupationWriter, novelistNationalityIrishAlma materDublin UniversityPeriod1995–presentGenreWomen's literatureSubjectDomestic violence, drug abuse, mental illness, divorce and alcoholismNotable worksFiction Watermelon (1995) Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married (1996) This Charming Man (2008)SpouseTony Baines (m. 1995)Websitewww.mariankeyes.com   Marian Keyes (born 10 September 1963) is an Irish novelist and non-fiction writer, best known for her work in women's literature. She is an Irish Book Awards winner. By March 2017 over 35 million copies of her twelve novels preceding The Break (2017) have been sold and been translated into 33 languages. She became known worldwide for Watermelon, Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married, Rachel's Holiday, Last Chance Saloon, Anybody Out There, and This Charming Man, with themes including alcoholism, depression, addiction, cancer, bereavement, and domestic violence.
Marie-Henri Beyle (French: [bɛl]; 23 January 1783 – 23 March 1842), better known by his pen name Stendhal (/ˈstɒ̃dɑːl, stɛnˈdɑːl, stæn-/; French: [stɛ̃dal, stɑ̃-]), was a 19th-century French writer. Best known for the novels Le Rouge et le Noir (The Red and the Black, 1830) and La Chartreuse de Parme (The Charterhouse of Parma, 1839), he is highly regarded for the acute analysis of his characters' psychology and considered one of the earliest and foremost practitioners of realism.
Marie Lu (born Xiwei Lu) is an American young adult author. She is best known for the Legend trilogy, novels set in a dystopian and militarized future. The novels form the basis of a movie to be produced by Lionsgate.
Marilyn Monroe (born Norma Jeane Mortenson; June 1, 1926 – August 5, 1962) was an American actress, model, and singer. Famous for playing comic "blonde bombshell" characters, she became one of the most popular sex symbols of the 1950s and was emblematic of the era's attitudes towards sexuality. Although she was a top-billed actress for only a decade, her films grossed $200 million by the time of her unexpected death in 1962 (equivalent to $2 billion in 2018). More than half a century later, she continues to be a major popular culture icon.   Born and raised in Los Angeles, Monroe spent most of her childhood in foster homes and an orphanage and married at the age of sixteen. While working in a radioplane factory in 1944 as part of the war effort, she was introduced to a photographer from the First Motion Picture Unit and began a successful pin-up modeling career. The work led to short-lived film contracts with Twentieth Century-Fox (1946–1947) and Columbia Pictures (1948). After a series of minor film roles, she signed a new contract with Fox in 1951. Over the next two years, she became a popular actress and had roles in several comedies, including As Young as You Feel and Monkey Business, and in the dramas Clash by Night and Don't Bother to Knock. Monroe faced a scandal when it was revealed that she had posed for nude photos before she became a star, but the story did not tarnish her career and instead resulted in increased interest in her films.   By 1953, Monroe was one of the most marketable Hollywood stars; she had leading roles in the noir film Niagara, which focused on her sex appeal, and the comedies Gentlemen Prefer Blondes and How to Marry a Millionaire, which established her star image as a "dumb blonde". The same year, her images were used as the centerfold and in the cover of the first issue of the men's magazine Playboy. Although she played a significant role in the creation and management of her public image throughout her career, she was disappointed when she was typecast and underpaid by the studio. She was briefly suspended in early 1954 for refusing a film project but returned to star in one of the biggest box office successes of her career, The Seven Year Itch (1955).   When the studio was still reluctant to change Monroe's contract, she founded a film production company in late 1954; she named it Marilyn Monroe Productions (MMP). She dedicated 1955 to building her company and began studying method acting at the Actors Studio. In late 1955, Fox awarded her a new contract, which gave her more control and a larger salary. Her subsequent roles included a critically acclaimed performance in Bus Stop (1956) and the first independent production of MMP, The Prince and the Showgirl (1957). Monroe won a Golden Globe for Best Actress for her work in Some Like It Hot (1959), a critical and commercial success. Her last completed film was the drama The Misfits (1961).   Monroe's troubled private life received much attention. She struggled with substance abuse, depression, and anxiety. Her second and third marriages, to retired baseball star Joe DiMaggio and playwright Arthur Miller, respectively, were highly publicised and both ended in divorce. On August 5, 1962, she died at age 36 from an overdose of barbiturates at her home in Los Angeles. Although Monroe's death was ruled a probable suicide, several conspiracy theories have been proposed in the decades following her death.
Mario Orlando Hardy Hamlet Brenno Benedetti Farrugia (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈmaɾjo βeneˈðeti] (; 14 September 1920 – 17 May 2009), known as Mario Benedetti, was a Uruguayan journalist, novelist, and poet as well as being an integral member of the Generación del 45. Despite publishing more than 80 books and being published in twenty languages he was not well known in the English-speaking world, but in the Spanish-speaking world he was considered one of Latin America's most important writers of the latter half of the 20th century.
Marissa Meyer (born February 19, 1984) is an American novelist. Her debut novel, Cinder, was released on January 3, 2012. It is the first in her series The Lunar Chronicles.
Mark Batterson is an American pastor and author. Batterson serves as lead pastor of National Community Church in Washington, D.C. NCC was recognized as one of the Most Innovative and Most Influential Churches in America by Outreach Magazine in 2008. Batterson is also the author of the books In a Pit with a Lion on a Snowy Day and Wild Goose Chase and blogs daily at www.evotional.com. Batterson's latest book The Circle Maker: Praying Circles Around Your Biggest Dreams and Greatest Fears was released in December 2011.
Mark Haddon (born 28 October 1962) is an English novelist, best known for The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time (2003). He won the Whitbread Award, the Dolly Gray Children's Literature Award, Guardian Prize, and a Commonwealth Writers Prize for his work.
Mark Helprin (born June 28, 1947) is an American novelist, journalist, conservative commentator, Senior Fellow of the Claremont Institute for the Study of Statesmanship and Political Philosophy, Fellow of the American Academy in Rome, and Member of the Council on Foreign Relations. While Helprin's fictional works straddle a number of disparate genres and styles, he has stated that he "belongs to no literary school, movement, tendency, or trend".
Mark Manson (born March 9, 1984) is an American self-help author, blogger and entrepreneur. He is the author of the website MarkManson.net and two books, The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F*ck: A Counterintuitive Approach to Living a Good Life, and Models: Attract Women through Honesty. He is also the CEO and founder of Infinity Squared Media LLC.
Mark Strand (April 11, 1934 – November 29, 2014) was a Canadian-born American poet, essayist and translator. He was appointed Poet Laureate Consultant in Poetry to the Library of Congress in 1990 and received the Wallace Stevens Award in 2004. Strand was a professor of English and Comparative Literature at Columbia University from 2005 until his death in 2014.
Mark Z. Danielewski (/ˈdæniəlɛfski/; born March 5, 1966) is an American fiction author. Though his second novel, Only Revolutions (2006), was nominated for the National Book Award, Danielewski is most widely known for his debut novel House of Leaves (2000), which garnered a considerable cult following and won the New York Public Library's Young Lions Fiction Award. He has published one novella, The Fifty Year Sword, which until rereleased by Pantheon in the United States in 2012, remained relatively obscure due to only 2000 copies being published in the Netherlands (2005, De Bezige Bij). Although several shorter works have been published, notably "All the Lights of Midnight: Salbatore Nufro Orejón, 'The Physics of Eror' and Livia Bassil's 'Psychology of Physics'," "Parable no9: 'The Hopeless Animal and the End of Nature,'" "Clip 4," and "Parable no8: 'Z is for Zoo,'" they've almost all been completely ignored by critics (though not fans). His latest project is The Familiar, an ambitious 27-volume serial novel whose first installment, The Familiar, Volume 1: One Rainy Day in May, was released on May 12, 2015. The Familiar, Volume 5: Redwood completed Season One when it was released on October 31, 2017.    Danielewski's work is characterized by an intricate, multi-layered typographical variation, or page layout. Sometimes known as visual writing, the typographical variation corresponds directly, at any given narratological point in time, to the physical space of the events in the fictional world as well as the physical space of the page and the reader. Early on, critics characterized his writing as being ergodic literature, but recently, Danielewski, who has commented on his disappointment with criticism's inability to properly confront his work, expressed his theoretical approach to literature:  Signiconic = sign + icon. Rather than engage those textual faculties of the mind remediating the pictorial or those visual faculties remediating language, the signiconic simultaneously engages both in order to lessen the significance of both and therefore achieve a third perception no longer dependent on sign and image for remediating a world in which the mind plays no part."  Since the release of The Familiar, Volume 1, Danielewski has been doing small tours for the release of each volume and releasing merchandise related to House of Leaves and The Familiar on his website. He has also not been seen publicly without donning a cat shirt since at least 2010.
Martha Graham (May 11, 1894 – April 1, 1991) was an American modern dancer and choreographer. Her style, the Graham technique, reshaped American dance and is still taught worldwide.   She danced and taught for over seventy years. Graham was the first dancer to perform at the White House, travel abroad as a cultural ambassador, and receive the highest civilian award of the US: the Presidential Medal of Freedom with Distinction. In her lifetime she received honors ranging from the Key to the City of Paris to Japan's Imperial Order of the Precious Crown. She said, in the 1994 documentary The Dancer Revealed, "I have spent all my life with dance and being a dancer. It's permitting life to use you in a very intense way. Sometimes it is not pleasant. Sometimes it is fearful. But nevertheless it is inevitable."
Martha Wells (born September 1, 1964) is an American writer of speculative fiction. She has published a number of fantasy novels, young adult novels, media tie-ins, short stories, and nonfiction essays on fantasy and science fiction subjects. Her novels have been translated into eight languages.
Martin Heidegger (/ˈhaɪˌdɛɡər, ˈhaɪdɪɡər/; German: [ˈmaɐ̯tiːn ˈhaɪdɛɡɐ]; 26 September 1889 – 26 May 1976) was a German philosopher and a seminal thinker in the Continental tradition and philosophical hermeneutics, and is "widely acknowledged to be one of the most original and important philosophers of the 20th century." Heidegger is best known for his contributions to phenomenology and existentialism, though as the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy cautions, "his thinking should be identified as part of such philosophical movements only with extreme care and qualification". Heidegger's membership in and public support for the Nazi Party has been the subject of widespread controversy regarding the extent to which his Nazism influenced his philosophy.   His first and best known book, Being and Time (1927), though unfinished, is one of the central philosophical works of the 20th century. In its first part, Heidegger attempted to turn away from "ontic" questions about beings to ontological questions about Being, and recover the most fundamental philosophical question: the question of Being, of what it means for something to be. Heidegger approached the question through an inquiry into the being that has an understanding of Being, and asks the question about it, namely, Human being, which he called Dasein ("being-there"). Heidegger argued that Dasein is defined by Care, its practically engaged and concernful mode of being-in-the-world, in opposition to such Rationalist thinkers as René Descartes who located the essence of man in his thinking abilities.   For Heidegger thinking is thinking about things originally discovered in our everyday practical engagements. The consequence of this is that our capacity to think cannot be the most central quality of our being because thinking is a reflecting upon this more original way of discovering the world. In the second part of his book, Heidegger argues that human being is even more fundamentally structured by its Temporality, or its concern with, and relationship to time, existing as a structurally open "possibility-for-being". He emphasized the importance of Authenticity in human existence, involving a truthful relationship to our thrownness into a world which we are "always already" concerned with, and to our being-towards-death, the Finitude of the time and being we are given, and the closing down of our various possibilities for being through time.   Heidegger also made critical contributions to philosophical conceptions of truth, arguing that its original meaning was unconcealment, to philosophical analyses of art as a site of the revelation of truth, and to philosophical understanding of language as the "house of being." Heidegger's later work includes criticisms of technology's instrumentalist understanding in the Western tradition as "enframing", treating all of Nature as a "standing reserve" on call for human purposes. Heidegger is a controversial figure, largely for his affiliation with Nazism, as Rector of the University of Freiburg for 11 months, before his resignation in April 1934, for which he neither apologized nor publicly expressed regret.
Martin Louis Amis (born 25 August 1949) is a British novelist, essayist, memoirist, and screenwriter. His best-known novels are Money (1984) and London Fields (1989). He has received the James Tait Black Memorial Prize for his memoir Experience and has been listed for the Booker Prize twice to date (shortlisted in 1991 for Time's Arrow and longlisted in 2003 for Yellow Dog). Amis served as the Professor of Creative Writing at the Centre for New Writing at the University of Manchester until 2011. In 2008, The Times named him one of the 50 greatest British writers since 1945.   Amis's work centres on the excesses of late-capitalist Western society, whose perceived absurdity he often satirises through grotesque caricature; he has been portrayed as a master of what The New York Times called "the new unpleasantness". Inspired by Saul Bellow, Vladimir Nabokov, and James Joyce, as well as by his father Kingsley Amis, Amis himself has gone on to influence many successful British novelists of the late 20th and early 21st centuries, including Will Self and Zadie Smith.
Martin Luther King Jr. (January 15, 1929 – April 4, 1968) was an American Baptist minister and activist who became the most visible spokesperson and leader in the civil rights movement from 1954 until his death in 1968. Born in Atlanta, King is best known for advancing civil rights through nonviolence and civil disobedience, tactics his Christian beliefs and the nonviolent activism of Mahatma Gandhi helped inspire.   King led the 1955 Montgomery bus boycott and in 1957 became the first president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC). With the SCLC, he led an unsuccessful 1962 struggle against segregation in Albany, Georgia, and helped organize the nonviolent 1963 protests in Birmingham, Alabama. He also helped organize the 1963 March on Washington, where he delivered his famous "I Have a Dream" speech.   On October 14, 1964, King won the Nobel Peace Prize for combating racial inequality through nonviolent resistance. In 1965, he helped organize the Selma to Montgomery marches. The following year, he and the SCLC took the movement north to Chicago to work on segregated housing. In his final years, he expanded his focus to include opposition towards poverty and the Vietnam War. He alienated many of his liberal allies with a 1967 speech titled "Beyond Vietnam". J. Edgar Hoover considered him a radical and made him an object of the FBI's COINTELPRO from 1963 on. FBI agents investigated him for possible communist ties, recorded his extramarital liaisons and reported on them to government officials, and on one occasion mailed King a threatening anonymous letter, which he interpreted as an attempt to make him commit suicide.   In 1968, King was planning a national occupation of Washington, D.C., to be called the Poor People's Campaign, when he was assassinated on April 4 in Memphis, Tennessee. His death was followed by riots in many U.S. cities. Allegations that James Earl Ray, the man convicted and imprisoned of killing King, had been framed or acted in concert with government agents persisted for decades after the shooting. Sentenced to 99 years in prison for King's murder, effectively a life sentence as Ray was 41 at the time of conviction, Ray served 29 years of his sentence and died from hepatitis in 1998 while in prison.   King was posthumously awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the Congressional Gold Medal. Martin Luther King Jr. Day was established as a holiday in numerous cities and states beginning in 1971; the holiday was enacted at the federal level by legislation signed by President Ronald Reagan in 1986. Hundreds of streets in the U.S. have been renamed in his honor, and a county in Washington State was also rededicated for him. The Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial on the National Mall in Washington, D.C., was dedicated in 2011.
Martin Luther, O.S.A. (/ˈluːθər/; German: [ˈmaɐ̯tiːn ˈlʊtɐ]; 10 November 1483 – 18 February 1546) was a German professor of theology, composer, priest, monk, and a seminal figure in the Protestant Reformation.   Luther came to reject several teachings and practices of the Roman Catholic Church. He strongly disputed the Catholic view on indulgences. Luther proposed an academic discussion of the practice and efficacy of indulgences in his Ninety-five Theses of 1517. His refusal to renounce all of his writings at the demand of Pope Leo X in 1520 and the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V at the Diet of Worms in 1521 resulted in his excommunication by the Pope and condemnation as an outlaw by the Holy Roman Emperor.   Luther taught that salvation and, consequently, eternal life are not earned by good deeds but are received only as the free gift of God's grace through the believer's faith in Jesus Christ as redeemer from sin. His theology challenged the authority and office of the Pope by teaching that the Bible is the only source of divinely revealed knowledge from God and opposed sacerdotalism by considering all baptized Christians to be a holy priesthood. Those who identify with these, and all of Luther's wider teachings, are called Lutherans, though Luther insisted on Christian or Evangelical (German: evangelisch) as the only acceptable names for individuals who professed Christ.   His translation of the Bible into the German vernacular (instead of Latin) made it more accessible to the laity, an event that had a tremendous impact on both the church and German culture. It fostered the development of a standard version of the German language, added several principles to the art of translation, and influenced the writing of an English translation, the Tyndale Bible. His hymns influenced the development of singing in Protestant churches. His marriage to Katharina von Bora, a former nun, set a model for the practice of clerical marriage, allowing Protestant clergy to marry.   In two of his later works, Luther expressed antagonistic views towards Jews. His rhetoric was not directed at Jews alone, but also towards Roman Catholics, Anabaptists, and nontrinitarian Christians. Martin Luther died in 1546, with his decree of excommunication by Pope Leo X still effective. On his deathbed, Luther was asked: "Are you ready to die trusting in your Lord Jesus Christ and to confess the doctrine which you have taught in his name?" He answered "Yes", before taking his final breath.
Mary Anne Evans (22 November 1819 – 22 December 1880; alternatively Mary Ann or Marian), known by her pen name George Eliot, was an English novelist, poet, journalist, translator, and one of the leading writers of the Victorian era. She wrote seven novels, including Adam Bede (1859), The Mill on the Floss (1860), Silas Marner (1861), Romola (1862–63), Middlemarch (1871–72), and Daniel Deronda (1876), most of which are set in provincial England and known for their realism and psychological insight.   Although female authors were published under their own names during her lifetime, she wanted to escape the stereotype of women's writing being limited to lighthearted romances. She also wanted to have her fiction judged separately from her already extensive and widely known work as an editor and critic. Another factor in her use of a pen name may have been a desire to shield her private life from public scrutiny, thus avoiding the scandal that would have arisen because of her relationship with the married George Henry Lewes.   Eliot's Middlemarch has been described by the novelists Martin Amis and Julian Barnes as the greatest novel in the English language.
Mary Balogh (rhymes with Kellogg, born Mary Jenkins on 24 March 1944 in Swansea, Wales) is a Welsh-Canadian novelist writing historical romance.
Mary E. Pearson (born August 14, 1955) is an American children's writer best known for young adult fiction.   Her book A Room on Lorelei Street won the 2006 Golden Kite Award for fiction. Her book The Adoration of Jenna Fox was a finalist for the Andre Norton Award and is being adapted into a movie.
Mary Flannery O'Connor (March 25, 1925 – August 3, 1964) was an American novelist, short story writer and essayist. She wrote two novels and thirty-two short stories, as well as a number of reviews and commentaries.   She was a Southern writer who often wrote in a sardonic Southern Gothic style and relied heavily on regional settings and supposedly grotesque characters, often in violent situations. The unsentimental acceptance or rejection of the limitations or imperfection or difference of these characters (whether attributed to disability, race, criminality, religion or sanity) typically underpins the drama.   Her writing reflected her Roman Catholic faith and frequently examined questions of morality and ethics. Her posthumously compiled Complete Stories won the 1972 U.S. National Book Award for Fiction and has been the subject of enduring praise.
Mary Oliver (born September 10, 1935) is an American poet. She has won the National Book Award and the Pulitzer Prize. In 2007 The New York Times described her as "far and away, this country's best-selling poet."
Mary Roach is an American author, specializing in popular science and humor. As of 2016, she has published seven books,: Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers (2003), Spook: Science Tackles the Afterlife (2005) (published in some markets as Six Feet Over: Adventures in the Afterlife), Bonk: The Curious Coupling of Science and Sex (2008), Packing for Mars: The Curious Science of Life in the Void (2010), My Planet: Finding Humor in the Oddest Places, Gulp: Adventures on the Alimentary Canal (2013), and Grunt: The Curious Science of Humans at War (2016).   Roach is noted for her curiosity and humor in addition to her research. Her many humor-laced articles in various publications over the decades include her monthly humor column, "My Planet", in Reader's Digest.
Mary Teresa Bojaxhiu commonly called Mother Teresa, and known in the Roman Catholic Church as Saint Teresa of Calcutta (born Anjezë Gonxhe Bojaxhiu, Albanian: [aˈɲɛzə ˈɡɔndʒɛ bɔjaˈdʒiu]; 26 August 1910 – 5 September 1997), was an Albanian-Indian Roman Catholic nun and missionary. She was born in Skopje (now the capital of Macedonia), then part of the Kosovo Vilayet of the Ottoman Empire. After living in Macedonia for eighteen years she moved to Ireland and then to India, where she lived for most of her life.   In 1950 Teresa founded the Missionaries of Charity, a Roman Catholic religious congregation which had over 4,500 nuns and was active in 133 countries in 2012. The congregation manages homes for people dying of HIV/AIDS, leprosy and tuberculosis; soup kitchens; dispensaries and mobile clinics; children's- and family-counselling programmes; orphanages, and schools. Members, who take vows of chastity, poverty, and obedience, also profess a fourth vow: to give "wholehearted free service to the poorest of the poor."   Teresa received a number of honours, including the 1962 Ramon Magsaysay Peace Prize and 1979 Nobel Peace Prize. She was canonised (recognised by the church as a saint) on 4 September 2016, and the anniversary of her death (5 September) is her feast day.   A controversial figure during her life and after her death, Teresa was admired by many for her charitable work. She was praised and criticised for her opposition to abortion, and criticised for poor conditions in her houses for the dying. Her authorised biography was written by Navin Chawla and published in 1992, and she has been the subject of films and other books. On September 6, 2017, Teresa was named co-patron of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Calcutta, alongside St. Francis Xavier.
Mary Wollstonecraft (27 April 1759 – 10 September 1797) was an English writer, philosopher, and advocate of women's rights. During her brief career, she wrote novels, treatises, a travel narrative, a history of the French Revolution, a conduct book, and a children's book. Wollstonecraft is best known for A Vindication of the Rights of Woman (1792), in which she argues that women are not naturally inferior to men, but appear to be only because they lack education. She suggests that both men and women should be treated as rational beings and imagines a social order founded on reason.   Until the late 20th century, Wollstonecraft's life, which encompassed several unconventional personal relationships, received more attention than her writing. After two ill-fated affairs, with Henry Fuseli and Gilbert Imlay (by whom she had a daughter, Fanny Imlay), Wollstonecraft married the philosopher William Godwin, one of the forefathers of the anarchist movement. Wollstonecraft died at the age of 38, eleven days after giving birth to her second daughter, leaving behind several unfinished manuscripts. This daughter, Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin, became an accomplished writer herself, as Mary Shelley, whose best known work was Frankenstein.   After Wollstonecraft's death, her widower published a Memoir (1798) of her life, revealing her unorthodox lifestyle, which inadvertently destroyed her reputation for almost a century. However, with the emergence of the feminist movement at the turn of the twentieth century, Wollstonecraft's advocacy of women's equality and critiques of conventional femininity became increasingly important. Today Wollstonecraft is regarded as one of the founding feminist philosophers, and feminists often cite both her life and work as important influences.
Masashi Kishimoto (岸本 斉史, Kishimoto Masashi, born November 8, 1974) is a Japanese manga artist, well known for creating the manga series Naruto which was in serialization from 1999 to 2014. As of October 2015, Naruto manga has sold over 220 million copies worldwide. The series has been adapted into two anime and multiple films, video games, and related media. Besides the Naruto manga, Kishimoto also personally supervised the two canonical anime films, The Last: Naruto the Movie and Boruto: Naruto the Movie, and has written several one-shot stories.   A reader of manga ever since a young age, Kishimoto showed a desire to write his own manga, citing authors Akira Toriyama and Katsuhiro Otomo as his main inspirations. As a result, Kishimoto spent several years working to write his own shōnen manga for Weekly Shōnen Jump magazine which he was a fan of.
Matt Haig (born 3 July 1975) is a British novelist and journalist. He has written both fiction and non-fiction for children and adults, often in the speculative fiction genre.
Matthew Arnold (24 December 1822 – 15 April 1888) was an English poet and cultural critic who worked as an inspector of schools. He was the son of Thomas Arnold, the famed headmaster of Rugby School, and brother to both Tom Arnold, literary professor, and William Delafield Arnold, novelist and colonial administrator. Matthew Arnold has been characterised as a sage writer, a type of writer who chastises and instructs the reader on contemporary social issues.
Maureen Johnson (born February 16, 1973) is an American author of young adult fiction. She has published ten young adult novels to date, including the Shades of London series and the Suite Scarlett series.
Maurice MaeterlinckBornMaurice Polydore Marie Bernard (1862-08-29)29 August 1862 Ghent, BelgiumDied6 May 1949(1949-05-06) (aged 86) Nice, FranceOccupationPlaywright · Poet · EssayistLanguageFrenchNationalityBelgianAlma materUniversity of GhentLiterary movementSymbolismNotable worksIntruder (1890) The Blind (1890) Pelléas et Mélisande (1893) Interior (1895) The Blue Bird (1908)Notable awardsNobel Prize in Literature   1911   Triennial Prize for Dramatic Literature   1903  SpouseRenée DahonPartnerGeorgette LeblancSignature   Maurice Polydore Marie Bernard Maeterlinck (also called Comte (Count) Maeterlinck from 1932; [mo.ʁis ma.tɛʁ.lɛ̃ːk] in Belgium, [mɛ.teʁ.lɛ̃ːk] in France; 29 August 1862 – 6 May 1949) was a Belgian playwright, poet, and essayist who was Flemish but wrote in French. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1911 "in appreciation of his many-sided literary activities, and especially of his dramatic works, which are distinguished by a wealth of imagination and by a poetic fancy, which reveals, sometimes in the guise of a fairy tale, a deep inspiration, while in a mysterious way they appeal to the readers' own feelings and stimulate their imaginations". The main themes in his work are death and the meaning of life. His plays form an important part of the Symbolist movement.
Max Lucado (born January 11, 1955) is a best-selling Christian author and writer and preacher at Oak Hills Church (formerly the Oak Hills Church of Christ) in San Antonio, Texas.
Max McKeown (born in London, October 1969) is an English writer, consultant, and researcher specialising in innovation strategy, leadership and culture. He has written six influential books and conducts research with Warwick Business School (Young, 2008). He is a fellow of the RSA. He served on the Advisory Board for the Rollins Center for eBusiness. He earned his Masters in Business Administration and PhD from the Warwick Business School under the supervision of Professor David Wilson and Professor Sotirios Paroutis, who was in turn supervised by Andrew Pettigrew.   McKeown is an advocate of innovation culture. He also argues that failure can be positive for progress if it is viewed as part of learning (Chynoweth, 2010). He makes a distinction between change and progress, "change is inevitable but progress is not" (McKeown, 2008). His work described how 'creativity doesn't come from hiring the right people, but from creating the right conditions' (Buchanan & Huczynski, 2013, McKeown, 2008). He also argues that "reacting matters as much as planning" and that strategy is effective only when it shapes events in the real world (McKeown, 2011).   In Adaptability, a contribution to innovation literature he sets out four levels of adaptation that social groups can achieve. Collapsing is the end of the social group. Coping is survival 'without prosperity, pride or joy'. Thriving provides benefits that are worthwhile and desirable. The final level, Transcending overcomes the limits of the old system, allowing more for everyone. The three step model of Adaptability (RUN) involves (1) Recognition of required adaptation (2) Understanding of adaptation required (3) Necessary adaptation. He describes High Adaptability (Killer) Cultures – or HACKs – as supportive of self-renewal that nurture and develop the talent of what he refers to as High Adaptability, High Achievement individuals – or HAHAs – who learn to become stronger when faced with adversity as compared to Low Adaptability, Low Achievement individuals – or LALAs – who become increasingly inflexible when put under pressure (McKeown, 2013).   Social groups, and individuals, attempt adaptation following three steps: First, recognition of the need to adapt. Second, understanding of the necessary adaptation. And third, adapting as necessary. In most societies there is a mix of different systems at different levels of adaptation fit. Many efforts to reach higher levels of adaptation fail because one or more of the steps is not completely successfully. People may fail to understand change is necessary, or not understand what kind of change is necessary, or simply avoid making those changes.   In The Strategy Book, one of the winners at the Chartered Institute of Management's Book of the Year Awards 2013 (Atherton, 2013), argues that "strategy is about shaping the future" (McKeown, 2011) and approaches strategy as something that people do, both as style of thinking and the combination of actions taken along with their consequences. He describes how individuals, and groups, can increase their ability to think and act strategically, by finding the best route to desirable ends with available means. He wrote the book to help real people use strategy partly in response to a call to action from Richard Whittington, writing about school of strategic management research known as Strategy-In-Practice (Whittington, 2002). In 2014, Japanese, Swedish and Portuguese translations will be published.  References   - Moore, S. (2000), What Makes McKeown Click? Business Post, 16 October 2001 - Whiteley, P. (2001), Just Trying to Keep the Customer Satisfied, The Times, 25 January 2001 - Crainer, S. (2001), Flavour of the Month, BA Inflight Magazine, February 2001 - White, M. (2001), Couch Commerce, Finance on Windows, pp48–55 - Fielding, R. (2001), Remote Working Held Back, Computing, pp41 - Bailey, V. (2001), Data Goldmine, The Customer Report, pp01–02 - Boucher, P, Lewis, J, and Weekes, S. (2001), 21 To Watch, Personnel Today, 13 March 2001 pp21–25 - Nicolle, L, (2001). Hard Times, Computer Weekly, 5 April 2001 - Whittington, R. (2002). Practice Perspectives on Strategy: Unifying and Developing a Field. - McKeown, M. (2008). Max Headroom, People Management, 2008, 14(4), pp. 28–32. - Young, R, (2008). Interview with Max McKeown, Strategic Direction, 2008 Volume: 24, Issue: 9 Page: 28-30 - Snowball, C, (2008). Three of a Kind: What's New In The Innovation Game?, Management Today, November 2008 - Chynoweth, C, (2010). The Positive Side of Failure, The Sunday Times, 20 June 2010 - McKeown, M, (2008). Max Headroom, People Management 21 Feb vol 14 no 4 2008 pp28–32 - McKeown, M, (2012). Why Plan B Matters Most, 30 March 2012, Management Today - Rigby, R, (2012). The Careerist: Strategic Thinking, Financial Times, 20 May 2013 - Atherton, J, (2013). Perky: It's Been Judged The Literary Equivalent of Coffee, Metro Newspaper, 30 January 2013 - Buchanan, D, & Huczynski, A, (2013) Organizational Behaviour, 8th Edition, Chapter 15 pp 54–5 - McKeown, M. (2013). HACK is the Killer App for Risk Managers. Strategic Risk Magazine. April 2013. Books   - The Innovation Book, Financial Times / Prentice Hall, 2014. - Adaptability: The Art of Winning, Kogan Page, 2012. - The Strategy Book, Financial Times / Prentice Hall, 2011. - The Truth About Innovation, Prentice Hall, 2008. - Unshrink: Yourself – People – Business – the World , Financial Times/ Prentice Hall, 2002. - Why They Don't Buy, Financial Times/ Prentice Hall, 2001. - E-Customer , FT.com, 2001.
Maya Angelou (/ˈændʒəloʊ/ (; born Marguerite Annie Johnson; April 4, 1928 – May 28, 2014) was an American poet, singer, memoirist, and civil rights activist. She published seven autobiographies, three books of essays, several books of poetry, and is credited with a list of plays, movies, and television shows spanning over 50 years. She received dozens of awards and more than 50 honorary degrees. Angelou is best known for her series of seven autobiographies, which focus on her childhood and early adult experiences. The first, I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings (1969), tells of her life up to the age of 17 and brought her international recognition and acclaim.   She became a poet and writer after a series of occupations as a young adult, including fry cook, sex worker, nightclub dancer and performer, cast member of the opera Porgy and Bess, coordinator for the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and journalist in Egypt and Ghana during the decolonization of Africa. She was an actress, writer, director, and producer of plays, movies, and public television programs. In 1982, she was named the first Reynolds Professor of American Studies at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. She was active in the Civil Rights Movement and worked with Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X. Beginning in the 1990s, she made around 80 appearances a year on the lecture circuit, something she continued into her eighties. In 1993, Angelou recited her poem "On the Pulse of Morning" (1993) at the first inauguration of Bill Clinton, making her the first poet to make an inaugural recitation since Robert Frost at the inauguration of John F. Kennedy in 1961.   With the publication of I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings, Angelou publicly discussed aspects of her personal life. She was respected as a spokesperson for black people and women, and her works have been considered a defense of black culture. Her works are widely used in schools and universities worldwide, although attempts have been made to ban her books from some U.S. libraries. Angelou's most celebrated works have been labeled as autobiographical fiction, but many critics consider them to be autobiographies. She made a deliberate attempt to challenge the common structure of the autobiography by critiquing, changing and expanding the genre. Her books center on themes such as racism, identity, family and travel.
Maya Banks is an American bestselling author of erotic romance, romantic suspense, contemporary romance, and Scottish historical romance novels.
May Sarton is the pen name of Eleanore Marie Sarton (May 3, 1912 – July 16, 1995), a prolific American poet, novelist and memoirist. She is considered an important contemporary figure in American literature, as well as a "poet's poet", and is lauded by literary and feminist critics for her works addressing themes in gender, sexuality, and universality.
Megan Whalen Turner (born November 21, 1965) is an American writer of fantasy fiction for young adults. She is best known for her novel The Thief and its four sequels. In 1997, The Thief was named a Newbery Honor book.
Meg Cabot (born Meggin Patricia Cabot; February 1, 1967) is an American author of romantic and paranormal fiction for teens and adults. She has written and published over fifty books, and is best known for The Princess Diaries, later made by Walt Disney Pictures into two feature films of the same name. Meg's books have been the recipients of numerous awards, including the New York Public Library Books for the Teen Age, the American Library Association Quick Pick for Reluctant Readers, the Tennessee Volunteer State TASL Book Award, the Book Sense Pick, the Evergreen Young Adult Book Award, the IRA/CBC Young Adult Choice, and many others. She has had numerous no. 1 New York Times bestsellers. Cabot has more than 25 million copies of her books—children's, young adult, and adult—in print worldwide.
Melina Marchetta (born 25 March 1965) is an Australian writer and teacher. Marchetta is best known as the author of teen novels, Looking for Alibrandi, Saving Francesca and On the Jellicoe Road. She has twice been awarded the CBCA Children's Book of the Year Award: Older Readers, in 1993 and 2004. For Jellicoe Road she won the 2009 Michael L. Printz Award from the American Library Association, recognising the year's best book for young adults. Marchetta holds a name for being one of the more prominent Australian Authors of present time in Young-Adult Fiction.
Melissa de la Cruz (born 1971) is a Filipina-American author known for her work in young adult fiction. She has written several series of young adult novels, including the Au Pair series and the Blue Bloods series, and a contemporary fiction series following The Beauchamp Family, as well as a number of stand-alone novels.
Michael Chabon (/ˈʃeɪbɒn/ SHAY-bon; born May 24, 1963) is an American novelist and short story writer.   Chabon's first novel, The Mysteries of Pittsburgh (1988), was published when he was 25. He followed it with Wonder Boys (1995), and two short-story collections. In 2000, Chabon published The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay, a novel that John Leonard, in a 2007 review of a later novel, called Chabon's magnum opus. It received the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 2001 (see: 2001 in literature).   His novel The Yiddish Policemen's Union, an alternate history mystery novel, was published in 2007 and won the Hugo, Sidewise, Nebula and Ignotus awards; his serialized novel Gentlemen of the Road appeared in book form in the fall of that same year. In 2012 Chabon published Telegraph Avenue, billed as "a twenty-first century Middlemarch," concerning the tangled lives of two families in the Bay Area of San Francisco in the year 2004. Chabon followed Telegraph Avenue in November 2016 with his latest novel, Moonglow, a fictionalized memoir of his maternal grandfather, based upon his deathbed confessions under the influence of powerful painkillers in Chabon's mother's California home in 1989.   Chabon's work is characterized by complex language, the frequent use of metaphor along with recurring themes, including nostalgia, divorce, abandonment, fatherhood, and most notably issues of Jewish identity. He often includes gay, bisexual, and Jewish characters in his work. Since the late 1990s, Chabon has written in an increasingly diverse series of styles for varied outlets; he is a notable defender of the merits of genre fiction and plot-driven fiction, and, along with novels, he has published screenplays, children's books, comics, and newspaper serials.
Michael Connelly (born July 21, 1956) is an American author of detective novels and other crime fiction, notably those featuring LAPD Detective Hieronymus "Harry" Bosch and criminal defense attorney Mickey Haller. Connelly is the bestselling author of thirty-one novels and one work of non-fiction. With over 60 million copies of his books sold worldwide and translated into forty foreign languages, he is one of the most successful writers working today. His very first novel, The Black Echo, won the prestigious Mystery Writers of America Edgar Award for Best First Novel in 1992. In 2002, Clint Eastwood directed and starred in the movie adaptation of Connelly's 1998 novel, Blood Work. In March 2011, the movie adaptation of his #1 bestselling novel, The Lincoln Lawyer, hit theaters worldwide starring Matthew McConaughey as Mickey Haller. His most recent #1 New York Times bestsellers include Two Kinds of Truth, The Late Show, The Wrong Side of Goodbye, The Crossing, The Burning Room, The Gods of Guilt, and The Black Box. His books, which have been translated into 39 languages, have garnered him many awards. Connelly was the President of the Mystery Writers of America from 2003 to 2004.
Michael Cunningham (born November 6, 1952) is an American novelist and screenwriter. He is best known for his 1998 novel The Hours, which won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and the PEN/Faulkner Award in 1999. Cunningham is a senior lecturer of creative writing at Yale University.
Michael Finkel is an American journalist and memoirist, who has written the books True Story: Murder, Memoir, Mea Culpa (2005) and The Stranger in the Woods: The extraordinary story of the last true hermit (2017).  Career   Finkel was a writer for The New York Times until 2002, when he was discovered to have used interviews with multiple people to create a composite protagonist, Youssouf Malé, for a story he had written on the African slave trade, "Is Youssouf Malé A Slave?"   Finkel had originally pitched a child slavery story to The New York Times, but his subsequent reporting did not uncover proof of enslavement, although he did encounter teenagers working for meager wages in difficult conditions.   The story Finkel submitted purported to profile an adolescent West African boy, Youssouf Malé, who sold himself into slavery on a cocoa plantation in the Ivory Coast. The story as published included photographs, including one described as being that of Malé. After publication, an official of Save the Children contacted Finkel to say that the boy pictured was not Malé. Upon questioning by his editors, Finkel admitted that the boy profiled in the article was in fact a composite of several boys he had interviewed, including one named Youssouf Malé. Finkel was then fired.   After his dismissal from The New York Times, Finkel learned that Christian Longo, an Oregon man who had murdered his own wife and three children in December 2001, had used "Michael Finkel" as an alias during his several weeks as a fugitive. After Longo's capture the next month, Finkel communicated with him. Finkel says that, before the trial, Longo had hoped the journalist would bring out "the real story" to help him win acquittal; after conviction, the convict gave Finkel interviews admitting his guilt. Finkel wrote a memoir on the relationship, True Story: Murder, Memoir, Mea Culpa (2005).   Finkel is also the author of The Stranger in the Woods which tells the story of Christopher Thomas Knight, a hermit who lived alone in woods in the North Pond area of Maine for 27 years.  Honors and awards   True Story was nominated for an Edgar Award for Best Fact Crime (2006).[citation needed] A film adaptation was released in April 2015, starring Jonah Hill as Finkel and James Franco as Longo.   In 2008, Finkel and photographer John Stanmeyer won the National Magazine Award for photojournalism for "Bedlam in the Blood: Malaria", published in  National Geographic (July 2007).  References    1. ^ Finkel, Michael (November 18, 2001). "Is Youssouf Malé A Slave? with Editors' Note". The New York Times. Retrieved April 18, 2015. (Registration required (help)).  2. ^ Salmon, Felix (February 27, 2002). "Michael Finkel and the New York Times Magazine". Retrieved March 12, 2016.  3. ^ "Editor's Note". The New York Times. February 21, 2002. Retrieved March 12, 2016.  4. ^ Wiegand, David (June 11, 2005). "After getting fired by the New York Times for lying in print, a reporter stumbled on the story of his life". San Francisco Chronicle. Retrieved April 14, 2015.  5. ^ Finkel, Michael (May 1, 2005). True Story. Harper.  6. ^ Coombe, Tucker (August 3, 2017). "'There Have Always Existed People Who've Simply Wanted to be Alone': An Interview with Michael Finkel". Hazlitt. Retrieved 2017-08-12.  7. ^ "Winners & Finalists". American Society of Magazine Editors. Retrieved April 18, 2015.  8. ^ Finkel, Michael. "Bedlam in the Blood: Malaria". National Geographic. Retrieved April 18, 2015. (Subscription required (help)).  9. ^ Shafer, Jack (July 27, 2007). "The Return of Michael Finkel". Slate. Retrieved April 18, 2015.
Michael Pollan /ˈpɒlən/ is an American author, journalist, activist, and the Lewis K. Chan Arts Lecturer and Professor of Practice of Non-Fiction at Harvard University. Pollan is also professor of journalism at the UC Berkeley Graduate School of Journalism.
Michel Eyquem de Montaigne, Lord of Montaigne (/mɒnˈteɪn/; French: [miʃɛl ekɛm də mɔ̃tɛɲ]; 28 February 1533 – 13 September 1592) was one of the most significant philosophers of the French Renaissance, known for popularizing the essay as a literary genre. His work is noted for its merging of casual anecdotes and autobiography with intellectual insight. His massive volume Essais contains some of the most influential essays ever written.   Montaigne had a direct influence on Western writers, including Francis Bacon, René Descartes, Blaise Pascal, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Albert Hirschman, William Hazlitt, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Friedrich Nietzsche, Stefan Zweig, Eric Hoffer, Isaac Asimov, and possibly on the later works of William Shakespeare.   In his own lifetime, Montaigne was admired more as a statesman than as an author. The tendency in his essays to digress into anecdotes and personal ruminations was seen as detrimental to proper style rather than as an innovation, and his declaration that, "I am myself the matter of my book", was viewed by his contemporaries as self-indulgent. In time, however, Montaigne would come to be recognized as embodying, perhaps better than any other author of his time, the spirit of freely entertaining doubt which began to emerge at that time. He is most famously known for his skeptical remark, "Que sçay-je?" ("What do I know?", in Middle French; now rendered as Que sais-je? in modern French).
Michel Houellebecq (French: [miʃɛl wɛlbɛk]; born Michel Thomas; 26 February 1956) is a French author, filmmaker, and poet.   His first book was a biographical essay on the horror writer H. P. Lovecraft. Houellebecq published his first novel, Whatever, in 1994. His next novel, Atomised, published in 1998, brought him international fame as well as controversy. Platform followed in 2001. He published several books of poems, including The Art of Struggle (Le sens du combat) in 1996. After a publicity tour for Platform led to his being taken to court for inciting racial hatred, he moved to Ireland for several years. He currently resides in France, where he has been described as "France’s biggest literary export and, some say, greatest living writer." In 2010 he published La Carte et le Territoire (published the same year in English as The Map and the Territory) which won the prestigious Prix Goncourt; and, in 2015, Submission.
Michelle Hodkin (born May 31, 1982) is an American New York Times bestselling author, and the creator of the Mara Dyer Trilogy, consisting of The Unbecoming of Mara Dyer, The Evolution of Mara Dyer, and The Retribution of Mara Dyer.
Michio Kaku (/ˈmiːtʃioʊ ˈkɑːkuː/; born January 24, 1947) is an American theoretical physicist, futurist, and popularizer of science (science communicator). He is a professor of theoretical physics in the City College of New York and CUNY Graduate Center. Kaku has written several books about physics and related topics, has made frequent appearances on radio, television, and film, and writes online blogs and articles. He has written four New York Times best sellers: Physics of the Impossible (2008), Physics of the Future (2011), The Future of the Mind (2014). Kaku has hosted several TV specials for the BBC, the Discovery Channel, the History Channel, and the Science Channel.
Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra (/sərˈvæntiːz/; US: /sərˈvɑːnteɪz/; Spanish: [miˈɣel de θeɾˈβantes saaˈβeðɾa]; 29 September 1547 (assumed) – 22 April 1616 NS) was a Spanish writer who is widely regarded as the greatest writer in the Spanish language and one of the world's pre-eminent novelists. His novel Don Quixote has been translated into over 140 languages and dialects; it is, after the Bible, the most-translated book in the world.   Don Quixote, a classic of Western literature, is sometimes considered both the first modern novel and the best work of fiction ever written. Cervantes' influence on the Spanish language has been so great that the language is often called la lengua de Cervantes ("the language of Cervantes"). He has also been dubbed El príncipe de los ingenios ("The Prince of Wits").   In 1569, in forced exile from Castile, Cervantes moved to Rome, where he worked as chamber assistant of a cardinal. Then he enlisted as a soldier in a Spanish Navy infantry regiment and continued his military life until 1575, when he was captured by Barbary pirates. After five years of captivity, he was released on payment of a ransom by his parents and the Trinitarians, a Catholic religious order, and he returned to his family in Madrid.   In 1585, Cervantes published La Galatea, a pastoral novel. He worked as a purchasing agent for the Spanish Armada and later as a tax collector for the government. In 1597, discrepancies in his accounts for three years previous landed him in the Crown Jail of Seville.   In 1605, Cervantes was in Valladolid when the immediate success of the first part of his Don Quixote, published in Madrid, signalled his return to the literary world. In 1607, he settled in Madrid, where he lived and worked until his death. During the last nine years of his life, Cervantes solidified his reputation as a writer, publishing Novelas ejemplares (Exemplary Novels) in 1613, Viaje del Parnaso (Journey to Parnassus) in 1614, and Ocho comedias y ocho entremeses and the second part of Don Quixote in 1615. His last work, Los trabajos de Persiles y Sigismunda (The Travails of Persiles and Sigismunda), was published posthumously in 1617.
Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi (/ˈmiːhaɪ ˈtʃiːksɛntˈmiːhaɪ/, Hungarian: Csíkszentmihályi Mihály, pronounced [ˈt͡ʃiːksɛntmihaːji ˈmihaːj] (; born 29 September 1934) is a Hungarian-American psychologist. He recognised and named the psychological concept of flow, a highly focused mental state.[page needed] He is the Distinguished Professor of Psychology and Management at Claremont Graduate University. He is the former head of the department of psychology at the University of Chicago and of the department of sociology and anthropology at Lake Forest College.
Milan KunderaMilan Kundera in 1980Born (1929-04-01) 1 April 1929 (age 89) Brno, Czechoslovakia (present day Czech Republic)OccupationWriterNationalityCzechCitizenshipFranceAlma materCharles University, Prague; Academy of Performing Arts in PragueGenreNovelNotable worksThe Joke (Žert) (1967)   The Book of Laughter and Forgetting (1979)   The Unbearable Lightness of Being (1984)Notable awardsJerusalem Prize   1985   The Austrian State Prize for European Literature   1987   Vilenica International Literary Festival   1992   Herder Prize   2000   Czech State Literature Prize   2007  RelativesLudvík Kundera (1891–1971), father   Ludvík Kundera (cousin)Signature  Milan Kundera (Czech: [ˈmɪlan ˈkundɛra]; born 1 April 1929) is a Czech-born French writer who went into exile in France in 1975, and became a naturalised French citizen in 1981. He "sees himself as a French writer and insists his work should be studied as French literature and classified as such in book stores".   Kundera's best-known work is The Unbearable Lightness of Being. Prior to the Velvet Revolution of 1989 the Communist régime in Czechoslovakia banned his books. He lives virtually incognito and rarely speaks to the media. A perpetual contender for the Nobel Prize in Literature, he is believed to have been nominated on several occasions.
Miyamoto Musashi (宮本 武蔵, c. 1584 – June 13, 1645), also known as Shinmen Takezō, Miyamoto Bennosuke or, by his Buddhist name, Niten Dōraku, was a Japanese swordsman, philosopher, writer and rōnin. Musashi, as he was often simply known, became renowned through stories of his excellent and unique double-bladed swordsmanship and undefeated record in his 61 duels (next is 33 by Itō Ittōsai). He was the founder of the Niten-Ichi-Ryū-School or Nito-Ichi-ryū style of swordsmanship and in his final years authored The Book of Five Rings (五輪の書, Go Rin No Sho), and Dokkōdō (The Path of Aloneness). Both documents were given to Terao Magonojō, the most important of Musashi's students, seven days before Musashi's death. The Book of Five Rings deals primarily with the character of his Niten-Ichi-Ryū-School in a concrete sense e.g. his own practical martial art and its generic significance; The Path of Aloneness on the other hand, deals with the ideas that lie behind it, as well as his life's philosophy in a few short aphoristic sentences.
Mohsin Hamid (Urdu: محسن حمید‎; born 23 July 1971) is a Pakistani novelist, writer and brand consultant. His novels are Moth Smoke (2000), The Reluctant Fundamentalist (2007), How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia (2013), and Exit West (2017).
Molly Harper is an American author of paranormal romance and general romance fiction and a member of the Romance Writers of America. Harper is best known for her Nice Girls vampire series and Naked Werewolf series.
M. P. Pandit (1918–1993) was a prolific writer, spiritual teacher, secretary of the Sri Aurobindo Ashram, and personal secretary to Mirra Alfassa, known to her followers as "The Mother". Born on 14 June 1918 in Sirsi, Karnataka, into a migrant Kashmiri Pandit family, he wrote some 150 books and as many articles on the yoga of Sri Aurobindo and Mirra Alfassa, social and political thought, science, philosophy, religion, mysticism, and the classical texts and spiritual traditions of India. He was also a student of Sanskrit writer and Vedic scholar Kapali Sastry. He traveled to the West several times and has a number of western students and disciples.  Partial bibliography   - "Bases of Sadhana", Dipti Publications, c/o Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin ISBN 0-941524-40-X - "Bases of Tantra Sadhana", Dipti Publications c/o Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, WI ISBN 978-0-941524-02-5 - Commentaries on Sri Aurobindo's Thought Vol. 1 - Deathless Rose - Dhyana (Meditation) - "Dictionary of Sri Aurobindo's Yoga" (compiler), Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin ISBN 0-941524-74-4 - "Gems from Sri Aurobindo First Series" (compiler), Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin - "Gems from Sri Aurobindo Second Series" (compiler), Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin ISBN 0-941524-73-6 - "Gems from Sri Aurobindo Third Series" (compiler), Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin ISBN 0-914955-16-0 - "Gems from Sri Aurobindo Fourth Series" (compiler), Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin ISBN 0-914955-17-9 - "Gems from the Tantras (Kularnava) Vol. 1" (compiler), Ganesh & Co., c/o Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin ISBN 0-940985-45-4 - "Gems from the Tantras Vol. 2" (compiler), Ganesh & Co., c/o Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin ISBN 0-940985-46-2 - Heart of Sadhana - How Do I Begin? - How Do I Proceed? - Japa (Mantra Yoga) - "Kundalini Yoga", Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin ISBN 0-941524-50-7 - Legends in the Life Divine - Life Beautiful - Lights on the Tantra - Mystic Approach to the Veda & the Upanishad - "Occult Lines Behind Life", Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin ISBN 0-941524-35-3 - Pandit in America - Pitfalls in Sadhana - Selected Works of M.P. Pandit Vol. 1 Sri Aurobindo - Selected Works of M.P. Pandit Vol. 2 The Mother - Selected Works of M.P. Pandit Vol. 3 Yoga - Selected Works of M.P. Pandit Vol. 4 Traditions - Selected Works of M.P. Pandit Vol. 5 The World - Spiritual Life Theory and Practice - "Sri Aurobindo and His Yoga", Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin ISBN 0-941524-25-6 - "Sri Aurobindo on the Tantra" (compiler), Dipti, c/o Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin ISBN 81-7509-039-1 - Thoughts of a Shakta: Yogishananda Natha - "Upanishads: Gateways of Knowledge", Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin ISBN 0-941524-44-2 - "Vedic Deities", Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin ISBN 0-941524-45-0 - "Vedic Symbolism" (compiler), Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin ISBN 0-941524-30-2 - "Wisdom of the Gita, First Series" (compiler), Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin ISBN 0-941524-72-8 - "Wisdom of the Gita, Second Series" (compiler, from Sri Aurobindo), Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin ISBN 0-941524-75-2 - Wisdom of the Upanishads (compiler) - "Wisdom of the Veda", Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin, ISBN 0-941524-55-8 - "Yoga for the Modern Man", Dipti, c/o Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin, ISBN 0-941524-13-2 - Yoga in Sri Aurobindo's Savitri - "Yoga of Knowledge", Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin, ISBN 0-941524-23-X - "Yoga of Love", Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin, ISBN 0-941524-16-7 - "Yoga of Self Perfection", Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin, ISBN 0-941524-20-5 - "Yoga of Transformation", Dipti, c/o Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin, ISBN 81-7509-010-3 - "Yoga of Works", Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin, ISBN 0-941524-21-3 References    1. ^ Prabuddha Bharata: Or Awakened India, Volume 100, Page 605  External links   - Sri MP Pandit - infobuddhism.com article - Sri Aurobindo - Publisher and Distributor of M P Pandit's Writings
Muhammad Ali Jinnah (Urdu: محمد علی جناح‬‎ ALA-LC: Muḥammad ʿAlī Jināḥ, born Mahomedali Jinnahbhai; 25 December 1876 – 11 September 1948) was a lawyer, politician, and the founder of Pakistan. Jinnah served as the leader of the All-India Muslim League from 1913 until Pakistan's independence on 14 August 1947, and then as Pakistan's first Governor-General until his death. He is revered in Pakistan as Quaid-i-Azam (Urdu: قائد اعظم‬‎, "Great Leader") and Baba-i-Qaum (بابائے قوم‬, "Father of the Nation"). His birthday is considered a national holiday in Pakistan.   Born at Wazir Mansion in Karachi, Jinnah was trained as a barrister at Lincoln's Inn in London. Upon his return to British India, he enrolled at the Bombay High Court, and took an interest in national politics, which eventually replaced his legal practice. Jinnah rose to prominence in the Indian National Congress in the first two decades of the 20th century. In these early years of his political career, Jinnah advocated Hindu–Muslim unity, helping to shape the 1916 Lucknow Pact between the Congress and the All-India Muslim League, in which Jinnah had also become prominent. Jinnah became a key leader in the All India Home Rule League, and proposed a fourteen-point constitutional reform plan to safeguard the political rights of Muslims. In 1920, however, Jinnah resigned from the Congress when it agreed to follow a campaign of satyagraha, which he regarded as political anarchy.   By 1940, Jinnah had come to believe that Muslims of the Indian subcontinent should have their own state. In that year, the Muslim League, led by Jinnah, passed the Lahore Resolution, demanding a separate nation. During the Second World War, the League gained strength while leaders of the Congress were imprisoned, and in the elections held shortly after the war, it won most of the seats reserved for Muslims. Ultimately, the Congress and the Muslim League could not reach a power-sharing formula for the subcontinent to be united as a single state, leading all parties to agree to the independence of a predominantly Hindu India, and for a Muslim-majority state of Pakistan.   As the first Governor-General of Pakistan, Jinnah worked to establish the new nation's government and policies, and to aid the millions of Muslim migrants who had emigrated from the new nation of India to Pakistan after independence, personally supervising the establishment of refugee camps. Jinnah died at age 71 in September 1948, just over a year after Pakistan gained independence from the United Kingdom. He left a deep and respected legacy in Pakistan. Innumerable streets, roads and localities in the world are named after Jinnah. Several universities and public buildings in Pakistan bear Jinnah's name. According to his biographer, Stanley Wolpert, he remains Pakistan's greatest leader.     - Jinnah family - Early life - Caucus Case - Political career    Governor-General of Pakistan     - Political views   - 11 August Speech - Fourteen Points of Jinnah - "Iman, Ittihad, Nazm" - Two nation theory    Parties    - All-India Muslim League - Pakistan Muslim League    Tributes    - Mazar-e-Quaid - List of things named after Jinnah      Gallery: Picture, Sound, Video   - v - t - e
Muhammad Ali (/ɑːˈliː/; born Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr.; January 17, 1942 – June 3, 2016) was an American professional boxer, activist, and philanthropist. Nicknamed "The Greatest", he is widely regarded as one of the most significant and celebrated sports figures of the 20th century and one of the greatest boxers of all time.   He was born and raised in Louisville, Kentucky, and began training as an amateur boxer when he was 12 years old. At age 18, he won a gold medal in the light heavyweight division at the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, then turned professional later that year, before converting to Islam after 1961. At age 22, in 1964, he won the world heavyweight championship from Sonny Liston in a major upset. He then changed his name from Cassius Clay, which he called his "slave name", to Muhammad Ali. He set an example of racial pride for African Americans and resistance to white domination during the Civil Rights Movement.   In 1966, two years after winning the heavyweight title, Ali further antagonized the white establishment by refusing to be drafted into the U.S. military, citing his religious beliefs, and opposition to American involvement in the Vietnam War. He was eventually arrested, found guilty of draft evasion charges, and stripped of his boxing titles. He successfully appealed the decision to the U.S. Supreme Court, which overturned his conviction in 1971, by which time he had not fought for nearly four years and thereby lost a period of peak performance as an athlete. Ali's actions as a conscientious objector to the war made him an icon for the larger counterculture generation.   Ali was one of the leading heavyweight boxers of the 20th century, and remains the only three-time lineal champion of that division. His records of beating 21 boxers for the world heavyweight title (shared with Joe Louis), as well as winning 14 unified title bouts (shared with former welterweight champion José Napoles), were unbeaten for 35 years. Ali is the only boxer to be named The Ring magazine Fighter of the Year six times. He has been ranked the greatest heavyweight boxer of all time. He was also ranked as the greatest athlete of the 20th century by Sports Illustrated, the Sports Personality of the Century by the BBC, and the third greatest athlete of the 20th century by ESPN SportsCentury. Nicknamed "The Greatest", he was involved in several historic boxing matches. Notable among these were the Liston fights; the "Fight of the Century", "Super Fight II" and the "Thrilla in Manila" against his rival Joe Frazier; and The Rumble in the Jungle against George Foreman.   At a time when most fighters let their managers do the talking, Ali thrived in and indeed craved the spotlight, where he was often provocative and outlandish. He was known for trash-talking, and often freestyled with rhyme schemes and spoken word poetry, both for his trash-talking in boxing and as political poetry for his activism, anticipating elements of rap and hip hop music. As a musician, Ali recorded two spoken word albums and a rhythm and blues song, receiving two Grammy nominations. As an actor, he performed in several films and a Broadway musical. Ali wrote two autobiographies, one during and one after his boxing career.   As a Muslim, Ali was initially affiliated with Elijah Muhammad's Nation of Islam (NOI) and advocated their black separatist ideology. He later disavowed the NOI, adhering to Sunni Islam, practicing Sufism, and supporting racial integration, like his former mentor Malcolm X.   After retiring from boxing in 1981, at age 39, Ali focused on religion and charity. In 1984, he was diagnosed with Parkinson's syndrome, which some reports attribute to boxing-related injuries, though both Ali and his physician disputed the claim. As his condition worsened, Ali made limited public appearances, and was cared for by his family until his death on June 3, 2016, in Scottsdale, Arizona.
Muriel Barbery (born 28 May 1969) is a French novelist and philosophy teacher. Her 2008 novel The Elegance of the Hedgehog quickly sold more than a million copies.
My Heart and Other Black Holes is a debut young adult novel by American author Jasmine Warga. HarperCollins published the novel on February 17, 2015. Sixteen-year-old physics nerd Aysel is obsessed with plotting her own death. With a mother who can barely look at her without wincing, classmates who whisper behind her back, and a father whose violent crime rocked her small town, Aysel is ready to turn her potential energy into nothingness.     There’s only one problem: she’s not sure she has the courage to do it alone. But once she discovers a website with a section called Suicide Partners, Aysel’s convinced she’s found her solution—Roman, a teenage boy who’s haunted by a family tragedy, is looking for a partner.   Even though Aysel and Roman have nothing in common, they slowly start to fill in each other’s broken lives. But as their suicide pact becomes more concrete, Aysel begins to question whether she really wants to go through with it. Ultimately, she must choose between wanting to die or trying to convince Roman to live so they can discover the potential of their energy together.  Film adaptation   On March 18, 2015, Paramount Pictures acquired the film adapting rights to the novel for Anonymous Content set to produce.  References    1. ^ Hipes, Patrick; Fleming Jr, Mike (March 18, 2015). "'My Heart And Other Black Holes' Movie: Paramount Books Suicide-Themed YA Novel". deadline.com. Retrieved March 23, 2015.       This article about a young adult novel of the 2010s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e See guidelines for writing about novels. Further suggestions might be found on the article's talk page.
Naguib Mahfouz (Egyptian Arabic: نجيب محفوظ‎ Nagīb Maḥfūẓ, IPA: [næˈɡiːb mɑħˈfuːzˤ]; December 11, 1911 – August 30, 2006) was an Egyptian writer who won the 1988 Nobel Prize for Literature. He is regarded as one of the first contemporary writers of Arabic literature, along with Tawfiq el-Hakim, to explore themes of existentialism. He published 34 novels, over 350 short stories, dozens of movie scripts, and five plays over a 70-year career. Many of his works have been made into Egyptian and foreign films.
Nalini Singh (born September 01, 1945) is an Indian journalist.   She has been the anchor for several current affairs programs on Doordarshan, and is most known for her program, 'Aankhon Dekhi', on investigative journalism.   She had made another show - Hello Zindagi, for Doordarshan, broadcast in 1995.
Naomi Klein (born May 8, 1970) is a Canadian author, social activist, and filmmaker known for her political analyses and criticism of corporate globalization and of capitalism. On a three year appointment from September 2018, she is the Gloria Steinem Chair in Media, Culture, and Feminist Studies at Rutgers University.   Klein first became known internationally for her book No Logo (1999); The Take (2004), a documentary film about Argentina’s occupied factories, written by her, and directed by her husband Avi Lewis; and significantly for The Shock Doctrine (2007), a critical analysis of the history of neoliberal economics that was adapted into a six-minute companion film by Alfonso and Jonás Cuarón, as well as a feature-length documentary by Michael Winterbottom.   This Changes Everything: Capitalism vs. the Climate (2014) was a New York Times Bestseller List non-fiction bestseller and the winner of the Hilary Weston Writers' Trust Prize for Nonfiction in its year. In 2016 Klein was awarded the Sydney Peace Prize for her activism on climate justice. Klein frequently appears on global and national lists of top influential thinkers, including the 2014 Thought Leaders ranking compiled by the Gottlieb Duttweiler Institute, Prospect magazine's world thinkers 2014 poll, and Maclean's 2014 Power List. She is a member of the board of directors of the climate activist group 350.org.
Naomi Novik (born 30 April 1973) is an American writer. She wrote the Temeraire fantasy/alternate history series of nine novels. Her first book, His Majesty's Dragon, won the 2007 Compton Crook Award for best first novel in the science fiction and fantasy category. She was nominated for a Hugo Award for Best Novel in 2007 and 2016, and won the Nebula Award for Best Novel in 2016 for Uprooted.
Napoléon Bonaparte (/nəˈpoʊliən ˈboʊnəpɑːrt/, French: [napɔleɔ̃ bɔnɑpaʁt]; Italian: Napoleone Bonaparte; 15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821) was a French statesman and military leader who rose to prominence during the French Revolution and led several successful campaigns during the French Revolutionary Wars. He was Emperor of the French from 1804 until 1814 and again briefly in 1815 during the Hundred Days. Napoleon dominated European and global affairs for more than a decade while leading France against a series of coalitions in the Napoleonic Wars. He won most of these wars and the vast majority of his battles, building a large empire that ruled over continental Europe before its final collapse in 1815. He is considered one of the greatest commanders in history, and his wars and campaigns are studied at military schools worldwide. Napoleon's political and cultural legacy has endured as one of the most celebrated and controversial leaders in human history.   He was born Napoleone di Buonaparte (Italian: [napoleˈoːne di ˌbwɔnaˈparte]) in Corsica to a relatively modest family of Italian origin from minor nobility. He was serving as an artillery officer in the French army when the French Revolution erupted in 1789. He rapidly rose through the ranks of the military, seizing the new opportunities presented by the Revolution and becoming a general at age 24. The French Directory eventually gave him command of the Army of Italy after he suppressed a revolt against the government from royalist insurgents. At age 26, he began his first military campaign against the Austrians and the Italian monarchs aligned with the Habsburgs—winning virtually every battle, conquering the Italian Peninsula in a year while establishing "sister republics" with local support, and becoming a war hero in France. In 1798, he led a military expedition to Egypt that served as a springboard to political power. He orchestrated a coup in November 1799 and became First Consul of the Republic. His ambition and public approval inspired him to go further, and he became the first Emperor of the French in 1804. Intractable differences with the British meant that the French were facing a Third Coalition by 1805. Napoleon shattered this coalition with decisive victories in the Ulm Campaign and a historic triumph over the Russian Empire and Austrian Empire at the Battle of Austerlitz which led to the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire. In 1806, the Fourth Coalition took up arms against him because Prussia became worried about growing French influence on the continent. Napoleon quickly defeated Prussia at the battles of Jena and Auerstedt, then marched his Grande Armée deep into Eastern Europe and annihilated the Russians in June 1807 at the Battle of Friedland. France then forced the defeated nations of the Fourth Coalition to sign the Treaties of Tilsit in July 1807, bringing an uneasy peace to the continent. Tilsit signified the high-water mark of the French Empire. In 1809, the Austrians and the British challenged the French again during the War of the Fifth Coalition, but Napoleon solidified his grip over Europe after triumphing at the Battle of Wagram in July.   Napoleon then invaded the Iberian Peninsula, hoping to extend the Continental System and choke off British trade with the European mainland, and declared his brother Joseph Bonaparte the King of Spain in 1808. The Spanish and the Portuguese revolted with British support. The Peninsular War lasted six years, featured extensive guerrilla warfare, and ended in victory for the Allies against Napoleon. The Continental System caused recurring diplomatic conflicts between France and its client states, especially Russia. The Russians were unwilling to bear the economic consequences of reduced trade and routinely violated the Continental System, enticing Napoleon into another war. The French launched a major invasion of Russia in the summer of 1812. The campaign destroyed Russian cities, but did not yield a decisive victory Napoleon wanted. It resulted in the collapse of the Grande Armée and inspired a renewed push against Napoleon by his enemies. In 1813, Prussia and Austria joined Russian forces in the War of the Sixth Coalition against France. A lengthy military campaign culminated in a large Allied army defeating Napoleon at the Battle of Leipzig in October 1813, but his tactical victory at the minor Battle of Hanau allowed retreat onto French soil. The Allies then invaded France and captured Paris in the spring of 1814, forcing Napoleon to abdicate in April. He was exiled to the island of Elba off the coast of Tuscany, and the Bourbon dynasty was restored to power. However, Napoleon escaped from Elba in February 1815 and took control of France once again. The Allies responded by forming a Seventh Coalition which defeated him at the Battle of Waterloo in June. The British exiled him to the remote island of Saint Helena in the South Atlantic, where he died six years later at the age of 51.   Napoleon's influence on the modern world brought liberal reforms to the numerous territories that he conquered and controlled, such as the Low Countries, Switzerland, and large parts of modern Italy and Germany. He implemented fundamental liberal policies in France and throughout Western Europe. His Napoleonic Code has influenced the legal systems of more than 70 nations around the world. British historian Andrew Roberts states: "The ideas that underpin our modern world—meritocracy, equality before the law, property rights, religious toleration, modern secular education, sound finances, and so on—were championed, consolidated, codified and geographically extended by Napoleon. To them he added a rational and efficient local administration, an end to rural banditry, the encouragement of science and the arts, the abolition of feudalism and the greatest codification of laws since the fall of the Roman Empire".
NapoleonThe Emperor Napoleon in His Study at the Tuileries by Jacques-Louis David, 1812Emperor of the FrenchReign18 May 1804 – 6 April 1814Coronation2 December 1804 Notre-Dame CathedralPredecessorMonarchy established (partly himself as First Consul)SuccessorLouis XVIII (Bourbon Restoration)Reign20 March 1815 – 22 June 1815PredecessorLouis XVIIISuccessorLouis XVIIIKing of ItalyReign17 March 1805 – 11 April 1814Coronation26 May 1805 Milan CathedralPredecessorCharles V, Holy Roman Emperor (1530)SuccessorVictor Emmanuel II (1861)Protector of the Confederation of the RhineIn office 12 July 1806 – 19 October 1813PredecessorOffice established (partly Francis II as Holy Roman Emperor)SuccessorFrancis I as President of the German ConfederationPresident of the Italian RepublicIn office 26 January 1802– 17 March 1805 PredecessorOffice established (partly Francesco Melzi d'Eril as First Director)SuccessorEnrico de Nicola (1946)First Consul of FranceIn office 10 November 1799 – 18 May 1804 Serving with Jean Jacques Régis and Charles-François LebrunPredecessorFrench DirectorySuccessorHimself as Emperor of the FrenchMore...Born(1769-08-15)15 August 1769 Ajaccio, Corsica, FranceDied5 May 1821(1821-05-05) (aged 51) Longwood, Saint Helena, United KingdomBurialLes Invalides, Paris, FranceSpouseJoséphine de Beauharnais (m. 1796; div. 1810) Marie Louise of Austria  (m. 1810)Issue DetailNapoleon IIFull nameNapoléon BonaparteHouseBonaparteFatherCarlo BuonaparteMotherLetizia RamolinoReligionsee religion sectionSignature   Coat of arms    Napoléon Bonaparte (/nəˈpoʊliən ˈboʊnəpɑːrt/, French: [napɔleɔ̃ bɔnɑpaʁt]; Italian: Napoleone Bonaparte; 15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821) was a French statesman and military leader who rose to prominence during the French Revolution and led several successful campaigns during the French Revolutionary Wars. He was Emperor of the French from 1804 until 1814 and again briefly in 1815 during the Hundred Days. Napoleon dominated European and global affairs for more than a decade while leading France against a series of coalitions in the Napoleonic Wars. He won most of these wars and the vast majority of his battles, building a large empire that ruled over continental Europe before its final collapse in 1815. He is considered one of the greatest commanders in history, and his wars and campaigns are studied at military schools worldwide. Napoleon's political and cultural legacy has endured as one of the most celebrated and controversial leaders in human history.   He was born Napoleone di Buonaparte (Italian: [napoleˈoːne di ˌbwɔnaˈparte]) in Corsica to a relatively modest family of Italian origin from minor nobility. He was serving as an artillery officer in the French army when the French Revolution erupted in 1789. He rapidly rose through the ranks of the military, seizing the new opportunities presented by the Revolution and becoming a general at age 24. The French Directory eventually gave him command of the Army of Italy after he suppressed a revolt against the government from royalist insurgents. At age 26, he began his first military campaign against the Austrians and the Italian monarchs aligned with the Habsburgs—winning virtually every battle, conquering the Italian Peninsula in a year while establishing "sister republics" with local support, and becoming a war hero in France. In 1798, he led a military expedition to Egypt that served as a springboard to political power. He orchestrated a coup in November 1799 and became First Consul of the Republic. His ambition and public approval inspired him to go further, and he became the first Emperor of the French in 1804. Intractable differences with the British meant that the French were facing a Third Coalition by 1805. Napoleon shattered this coalition with decisive victories in the Ulm Campaign and a historic triumph over the Russian Empire and Austrian Empire at the Battle of Austerlitz which led to the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire. In 1806, the Fourth Coalition took up arms against him because Prussia became worried about growing French influence on the continent. Napoleon quickly defeated Prussia at the battles of Jena and Auerstedt, then marched his Grande Armée deep into Eastern Europe and annihilated the Russians in June 1807 at the Battle of Friedland. France then forced the defeated nations of the Fourth Coalition to sign the Treaties of Tilsit in July 1807, bringing an uneasy peace to the continent. Tilsit signified the high-water mark of the French Empire. In 1809, the Austrians and the British challenged the French again during the War of the Fifth Coalition, but Napoleon solidified his grip over Europe after triumphing at the Battle of Wagram in July.   Napoleon then invaded the Iberian Peninsula, hoping to extend the Continental System and choke off British trade with the European mainland, and declared his brother Joseph Bonaparte the King of Spain in 1808. The Spanish and the Portuguese revolted with British support. The Peninsular War lasted six years, featured extensive guerrilla warfare, and ended in victory for the Allies against Napoleon. The Continental System caused recurring diplomatic conflicts between France and its client states, especially Russia. The Russians were unwilling to bear the economic consequences of reduced trade and routinely violated the Continental System, enticing Napoleon into another war. The French launched a major invasion of Russia in the summer of 1812. The campaign destroyed Russian cities, but did not yield a decisive victory Napoleon wanted. It resulted in the collapse of the Grande Armée and inspired a renewed push against Napoleon by his enemies. In 1813, Prussia and Austria joined Russian forces in the War of the Sixth Coalition against France. A lengthy military campaign culminated in a large Allied army defeating Napoleon at the Battle of Leipzig in October 1813, but his tactical victory at the minor Battle of Hanau allowed retreat onto French soil. The Allies then invaded France and captured Paris in the spring of 1814, forcing Napoleon to abdicate in April. He was exiled to the island of Elba off the coast of Tuscany, and the Bourbon dynasty was restored to power. However, Napoleon escaped from Elba in February 1815 and took control of France once again. The Allies responded by forming a Seventh Coalition which defeated him at the Battle of Waterloo in June. The British exiled him to the remote island of Saint Helena in the South Atlantic, where he died six years later at the age of 51.   Napoleon's influence on the modern world brought liberal reforms to the numerous territories that he conquered and controlled, such as the Low Countries, Switzerland, and large parts of modern Italy and Germany. He implemented fundamental liberal policies in France and throughout Western Europe. His Napoleonic Code has influenced the legal systems of more than 70 nations around the world. British historian Andrew Roberts states: "The ideas that underpin our modern world—meritocracy, equality before the law, property rights, religious toleration, modern secular education, sound finances, and so on—were championed, consolidated, codified and geographically extended by Napoleon. To them he added a rational and efficient local administration, an end to rural banditry, the encouragement of science and the arts, the abolition of feudalism and the greatest codification of laws since the fall of the Roman Empire".
Nassim Nicholas Taleb (/ˈtɑːləb/; Arabic: نسيم نقولا طالب‎, alternatively Nessim or Nissim; born 1960) is a Lebanese–American essayist, scholar, statistician, and former trader and risk analyst, whose work focuses on problems of randomness, probability, and uncertainty. His 2007 book The Black Swan has been described by The Sunday Times as one of the twelve most influential books since World War II.   Taleb is an author and has been a professor at several universities, serving as a Distinguished Professor of Risk Engineering at the New York University Tandon School of Engineering since September 2008. He has been co-editor-in-chief of the academic journal Risk and Decision Analysis since September 2014. He has also been a practitioner of mathematical finance, a hedge fund manager, and a derivatives trader, and is currently listed as a scientific adviser at Universa Investments.   He criticized the risk management methods used by the finance industry and warned about financial crises, subsequently profiting from the late-2000s financial crisis. He advocates what he calls a "black swan robust" society, meaning a society that can withstand difficult-to-predict events. He proposes antifragility in systems, that is, an ability to benefit and grow from a certain class of random events, errors, and volatility as well as "convex tinkering" as a method of scientific discovery, by which he means that decentralized experimentation outperforms directed research.
Natalia Ginzburg, née Levi (Italian: [nataˈliːa ˈɡintsburɡ]; German: [ˈɡɪntsbʊɐ̯k]; 14 July 1916 – 7 October 1991), was an Italian author whose work explored family relationships, politics during and after the Fascist years and World War II, and philosophy. She wrote novels, short stories and essays, for which she received the Strega Prize and Bagutta Prize. Most of her works were also translated into English and published in the United Kingdom and United States.   An activist, for a time in the 1930s she belonged to the Italian Communist Party. In 1983 she was elected to Parliament from Rome as an Independent.
Natalie Goldberg (born 1948) is an American popular author and speaker She is best known for a series of books which explore writing as Zen practice.
Natasha Tsakos is a conceptual director, interactive designer, and motion and visual Performance Artist from Geneva, Switzerland, living in Florida. Her work explores the symbiosis of technology and live performance. She believes in inventing possibilities through theatrical experiences and is the current president and founder of NTiD inc.
Nathaniel Hawthorne (/ˈhɔːθɔːrn/; né Hathorne; 1804–1864) was an American novelist, dark romantic, and short story writer.   He was born in 1804 in Salem, Massachusetts, to Nathaniel Hathorne and the former Elizabeth Clarke Manning. His ancestors include John Hathorne, the only judge involved in the Salem witch trials who never repented of his actions. He entered Bowdoin College in 1821, was elected to Phi Beta Kappa in 1824, and graduated in 1825. He published his first work in 1828, the novel Fanshawe; he later tried to suppress it, feeling that it was not equal to the standard of his later work. He published several short stories in periodicals, which he collected in 1837 as Twice-Told Tales. The next year, he became engaged to Sophia Peabody. He worked at the Boston Custom House and joined Brook Farm, a transcendentalist community, before marrying Peabody in 1842. The couple moved to The Old Manse in Concord, Massachusetts, later moving to Salem, the Berkshires, then to The Wayside in Concord. The Scarlet Letter was published in 1850, followed by a succession of other novels. A political appointment as consul took Hawthorne and family to Europe before their return to Concord in 1860. Hawthorne died on May 19, 1864, and was survived by his wife and their three children.   Much of Hawthorne's writing centers on New England, many works featuring moral metaphors with an anti-Puritan inspiration. His fiction works are considered part of the Romantic movement and, more specifically, dark romanticism. His themes often center on the inherent evil and sin of humanity, and his works often have moral messages and deep psychological complexity. His published works include novels, short stories, and a biography of his college friend Franklin Pierce, the 14th President of the United States.
Natsuki Takaya (高屋 奈月, Takaya Natsuki) is the pen name of a Japanese manga artist best known for creating the series Fruits Basket.   Takaya was born in Shizuoka, Japan, but was raised in Tokyo, where she made her debut in 1992. Takaya is left-handed and had wanted to be a manga artist since first grade, when her sister started drawing.[citation needed]   Her manga series Fruits Basket was one of the top selling shōjo manga in North America. Fruits Basket has also been adapted into a twenty-six-episode anime series. In 2001, Takaya received a Kodansha Manga Award for shōjo manga for Fruits Basket.   As revealed in a sidebar of Fruits Basket, Takaya broke her drawing arm (left) after Fruits Basket volume six was published. She had to go into surgery, and as a result, had put Fruits Basket on a brief hiatus. Takaya made a full recovery, but complained that her handwriting had gotten uglier due to the surgery.[citation needed]  Works References    1. ^ "'Fruits Basket' Tally Over 18 Million". ICv2. 2007-05-08. Retrieved 2007-12-12.  2. ^ Hibbs, Brian (February 2008). "Tilting @ Windmills 2.0 #49: Looking at Bookscan 2007". Newsarama. Archived from the original on 2008-05-17. Retrieved 2008-02-19. Tokyopop’s best-selling title is Fruits Basket v16 with an excellent 58,372 copies sold in 2007" and "[In 2007]...Naruto shares the Top 10 manga titles with Fruits Basket, Death Note and Bleach.  3. ^ Joel Hahn. "Kodansha Manga Awards". Comic Book Awards Almanac. Archived from the original on 2007-08-16. Retrieved 2007-08-21.  4. ^ "著者：高屋奈月" [Author: Natsuki Takaya]. Media Arts Database (in Japanese). Japan: Agency for Cultural Affairs. Retrieved May 2, 2017.  5. ^ a b "Tokyopop Announces New Manga Titles (Update 2)". Anime News Network. July 5, 2008. Retrieved December 13, 2013.  6. ^ "幻影夢想(花とゆめcomics)". Media Arts Database (in Japanese). Japan: Agency for Cultural Affairs. Retrieved May 5, 2017.  7. ^ "翼を持つ者(花とゆめcomics)". Media Arts Database (in Japanese). Japan: Agency for Cultural Affairs. Retrieved May 5, 2017.  8. ^ a b "Fruits Basket's Takaya to Start Liselotte & Witch's Forest". Anime News Network. April 16, 2011. Retrieved December 13, 2013.  9. ^ "フルーツバスケット(花とゆめcomics)". Media Arts Database (in Japanese). Japan: Agency for Cultural Affairs. Retrieved May 5, 2017.  10. ^ "フルーツバスケット愛蔵版(花とゆめCOMICSスペシャル)". Media Arts Database (in Japanese). Japan: Agency for Cultural Affairs. Retrieved May 5, 2017.  11. ^ "僕が唄うと君は笑うから(花とゆめcomics)". Media Arts Database (in Japanese). Japan: Agency for Cultural Affairs. Retrieved May 5, 2017.  12. ^ "New Manga from Fruits Basket Creator Set to Debut". Anime News Network. May 20, 2007. Retrieved December 13, 2013.  13. ^ "星は歌う(花とゆめCOMICS)". Media Arts Database (in Japanese). Japan: Agency for Cultural Affairs. Retrieved May 5, 2017.  14. ^ "Fruits Basket's Natsuki Takaya to Go on Extended Hiatus". Anime News Network. December 3, 2013. Retrieved November 22, 2014.  15. ^ "リーゼロッテと魔女の森(花とゆめcomics　／　花とゆめCOMICS)". Media Arts Database (in Japanese). Japan: Agency for Cultural Affairs. Retrieved May 5, 2017.  16. ^ "フルーツバスケットanotherFRUITS BASKET another(HC online)". Media Arts Database (in Japanese). Japan: Agency for Cultural Affairs. Retrieved May 5, 2017.  External links   - Natsuki Takaya at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Natsume Sōseki (夏目 漱石, February 9, 1867 – December 9, 1916), born Natsume Kin'nosuke (夏目 金之助), was a Japanese novelist. He is best known for his novels Kokoro, Botchan, I Am a Cat and his unfinished work Light and Darkness. He was also a scholar of British literature and composer of haiku, kanshi, and fairy tales. From 1984 until 2004, his portrait appeared on the front of the Japanese 1000 yen note. In Japan, he is often considered the greatest writer in modern Japanese history. He has had a profound effect on almost all important Japanese writers since.
Neale Donald Walsch (born September 10, 1943) is an American author of the series Conversations with God. He is also an actor, screenwriter, and speaker.
Neal Shusterman (born November 12, 1962) is an American writer of young-adult fiction. He won the National Book Award for Young People's Literature for his book Challenger Deep.
Ned Vizzini (born Edison Price Vizzini, April 4, 1981 – December 19, 2013) was an American writer. He was the author of four books for young adults including It's Kind of a Funny Story, which NPR named #56 of the "100 Best-Ever Teen Novels"  and which is the basis of the film of the same name.   Vizzini suffered from depression, spending time in a psychiatric ward in his early 20s, and authoring several works about the illness. He was found dead in his native Brooklyn, New York after an apparent suicide from a fall, aged 32.
Neelam Saxena Chandra (born 27 June 1969) is an Indian poet and author. She has written children's stories and poetry. She also writes fiction in English and Hindi. She has received several awards including the Rabindranath Tagore International Award in 2014. given by Xpress Publications: Kerala, India. She is an IES Officer of 1993 batch, also served as Joint Secretary of Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). She is currently serving as General Manager of Pune Metro.
Neel Burton (born 3 June 1978 in Mauritius, Indian Ocean) is a British psychiatrist, philosopher, writer, and educator. He is the author of several books, including Psychiatry (2006), Living with Schizophrenia (2007), The Meaning of Madness (2008), Master your Mind (2009), and Heaven and Hell: The Psychology of the Emotions (2015).  References    1. ^ "Book Review: Psychiatry By Neel L Burton and Bill Fulford, Blackwell Publishing Inc., Paperback, 2006, 181pp, ISBN 978-1-4051-3652-5 -- Lomas 22 (6): 697 -- Journal of Psychopharmacology". jop.sagepub.com. Retrieved 3 June 2013.  2. ^ "Cambridge Journals Online - Psychological Medicine - Abstract - Psychiatry. By N. L. Burton [Editorial Advisor: Bill (K. W. M.) Fulford] (Pp. 192; $29.95; ISBN 1-4051-3652-9.) Blackwell Publishing. 2006". journals.cambridge.org. Retrieved 3 June 2013.  3. ^ "Published this week – General – Times Higher Education". timeshighereducation.co.uk. Retrieved 3 June 2013.  4. ^ "Paperback round-up (From The Oxford Times)". oxfordtimes.co.uk. 3 June 2013. Retrieved 3 June 2013.  External links   - Official website      This article about a United Kingdom psychiatrist is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
Neil deGrasse Tyson (/dəˈɡræs/; born October 5, 1958) is an American astrophysicist, author, and science communicator. Since 1996, he has been the Frederick P. Rose Director of the Hayden Planetarium at the Rose Center for Earth and Space in New York City. The center is part of the American Museum of Natural History, where Tyson founded the Department of Astrophysics in 1997 and has been a research associate in the department since 2003.   Tyson studied at Harvard University, the University of Texas at Austin and Columbia University. From 1991 to 1994 he was a postdoctoral research associate at Princeton University. In 1994, he joined the Hayden Planetarium as a staff scientist and the Princeton faculty as a visiting research scientist and lecturer. In 1996, he became director of the planetarium and oversaw its $210 million reconstruction project, which was completed in 2000.   From 1995 to 2005, Tyson wrote monthly essays in the "Universe" column for Natural History magazine, some of which were later published in his books Death by Black Hole (2007) and Astrophysics for People in a Hurry (2017). During the same period, he wrote a monthly column in StarDate magazine, answering questions about the universe under the pen name "Merlin". Material from the column appeared in his books Merlin's Tour of the Universe (1998) and Just Visiting This Planet (1998). Tyson served on a 2001 government commission on the future of the U.S. aerospace industry, and on the 2004 Moon, Mars and Beyond commission. He was awarded the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal in the same year. From 2006 to 2011, he hosted the television show NOVA ScienceNow on PBS. Since 2009, Tyson has hosted the weekly podcast StarTalk. A spin-off, also called StarTalk, began airing on National Geographic in 2015. In 2014, he hosted the television series Cosmos: A Spacetime Odyssey, a successor to Carl Sagan's 1980 series Cosmos: A Personal Voyage. The U.S. National Academy of Sciences awarded Tyson the Public Welfare Medal in 2015 for his "extraordinary role in exciting the public about the wonders of science."
Neil Postman (March 8, 1931 – October 5, 2003) was an American author, educator, media theorist and cultural critic, who is best known for his twenty books, including Amusing Ourselves to Death (1985), Conscientious Objections (1988), Technopoly: The Surrender of Culture to Technology (1992), The Disappearance of Childhood (1994) and The End of Education: Redefining the Value of School (1995).
Nelle Harper Lee (April 28, 1926 – February 19, 2016) was an American novelist widely known for To Kill a Mockingbird, published in 1960. Immediately successful, it won the 1961 Pulitzer Prize and has become a classic of modern American literature. Though Lee had only published this single book, in 2007 she was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom for her contribution to literature. Additionally, Lee received numerous honorary degrees, though she declined to speak on those occasions. She was also known for assisting her close friend Truman Capote in his research for the book In Cold Blood (1966). Capote was the basis for the character Dill in To Kill a Mockingbird.   The plot and characters of To Kill a Mockingbird are loosely based on Lee's observations of her family and neighbors, as well as an event that occurred near her hometown in 1936, when she was 10 years old. The novel deals with the irrationality of adult attitudes towards race and class in the Deep South of the 1930s, as depicted through the eyes of two children. The novel was inspired by racist attitudes in her hometown of Monroeville, Alabama.   Another novel, Go Set a Watchman, was written in the mid-1950s and published in July 2015 as a "sequel", though it was later confirmed to be To Kill a Mockingbird's first draft.
Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela (/mænˈdɛlə/; Xhosa: [xoliɬaˈɬa manˈdɛla]; 18 July 1918 – 5 December 2013) was a South African anti-apartheid revolutionary, political leader, and philanthropist who served as President of South Africa from 1994 to 1999. He was the country's first black head of state and the first elected in a fully representative democratic election. His government focused on dismantling the legacy of apartheid by tackling institutionalised racism and fostering racial reconciliation. Ideologically an African nationalist and socialist, he served as President of the African National Congress (ANC) party from 1991 to 1997.   A Xhosa, Mandela was born to the Thembu royal family in Mvezo, British South Africa. He studied law at the University of Fort Hare and the University of Witwatersrand before working as a lawyer in Johannesburg. There he became involved in anti-colonial and African nationalist politics, joining the ANC in 1943 and co-founding its Youth League in 1944. After the National Party's white-only government established apartheid, a system of racial segregation that privileged whites, he and the ANC committed themselves to its overthrow. Mandela was appointed President of the ANC's Transvaal branch, rising to prominence for his involvement in the 1952 Defiance Campaign and the 1955 Congress of the People. He was repeatedly arrested for seditious activities and was unsuccessfully prosecuted in the 1956 Treason Trial. Influenced by Marxism, he secretly joined the banned South African Communist Party (SACP). Although initially committed to non-violent protest, in association with the SACP he co-founded the militant Umkhonto we Sizwe in 1961 and led a sabotage campaign against the government. He was arrested and imprisoned in 1962, and subsequently sentenced to life imprisonment for conspiring to overthrow the state following the Rivonia Trial.   Mandela served 27 years in prison, split between Robben Island, Pollsmoor Prison, and Victor Verster Prison. Amid growing domestic and international pressure, and with fears of a racial civil war, President F. W. de Klerk released him in 1990. Mandela and de Klerk led efforts to negotiate an end to apartheid, which resulted in the 1994 multiracial general election in which Mandela led the ANC to victory and became president. Leading a broad coalition government which promulgated a new constitution, Mandela emphasised reconciliation between the country's racial groups and created the Truth and Reconciliation Commission to investigate past human rights abuses. Economically, Mandela's administration retained its predecessor's liberal framework despite his own socialist beliefs, also introducing measures to encourage land reform, combat poverty, and expand healthcare services. Internationally, he acted as mediator in the Pan Am Flight 103 bombing trial and served as Secretary-General of the Non-Aligned Movement from 1998 to 1999. He declined a second presidential term, and in 1999 was succeeded by his deputy, Thabo Mbeki. Mandela became an elder statesman and focused on combating poverty and HIV/AIDS through the charitable Nelson Mandela Foundation.   Mandela was a controversial figure for much of his life. Although critics on the right denounced him as a communist terrorist and those on the far-left deemed him too eager to negotiate and reconcile with apartheid's supporters, he gained international acclaim for his activism. Widely regarded as an icon of democracy and social justice, he received more than 250 honours—including the Nobel Peace Prize—and became the subject of a cult of personality. He is held in deep respect within South Africa, where he is often referred to by his Xhosa clan name, Madiba, and described as the "Father of the Nation".
Nemoto (written: 根本) is a Japanese surname. Notable people with the surname include.    - Harumi Nemoto (根本 はるみ, born 1980), Japanese gravure idol - Haruno Nemoto (根本 葉瑠乃, born 1995), Japanese women's basketball player - Keiko Nemoto (根本 圭子, born 1979), Japanese voice actress - Keisuke Nemoto (born 1979), Japanese karateka - Mio Nemoto (根本 望央, born 1992), Japanese women's footballer - Mitsuyo Nemoto (根本 美鶴代, born 1958), better known as Mie, Japanese singer and actress - Nami Nemoto (根本 奈美, born 1975), Japanese speed skater - Ritsuko Nemoto (根本 りつ子, born 1959), Japanese actress - Ryosuke Nemoto (根本 亮助, born 1980), Japanese footballer - Seiji Nemoto (根本 誠次, born 1961), Japanese sport wrestler - Shunichi Nemoto (根元 俊一, born 1983), Japanese baseball player - Takumi Nemoto (根本 匠, born 1951), Japanese politician - Tomohisa Nemoto (根本 朋久, born 1986), Japanese baseball player - Yuichi Nemoto (根本 裕一, born 1981), Japanese footballer - Dewi Sukarno (born 1940), Japanese socialite, born Naoko Nemoto Fictional characters   - Kyōji Nemoto (根本 恭二), a character in the light novel series Baka and Test See also   - Nemoto Station, a railway station in Tajimi, Gifu Prefecture, Japan
Nick Harkaway (born 1972) is a British novelist and commentator. He is the author of the novels The Gone-Away World, Angelmaker, Tigerman, and Gnomon; and a non-fiction study of the digital world, The Blind Giant: Being Human in a Digital World.
Nicola Yoon is a Jamaican-American author. She is best known for writing the 2015 young adult novel Everything, Everything, a New York Times best seller and the basis of a 2017 film of the same name. In 2016, she released The Sun Is Also a Star.
Nicole Krauss (born August 18, 1974) is an American author best known for her four novels Man Walks Into a Room (2002), The History of Love (2005), Great House (2010) and Forest Dark (2017). Her fiction has been published in The New Yorker, Harper's, Esquire, and Granta's Best American Novelists Under 40, and has been collected in Best American Short Stories 2003 and Best American Short Stories 2008. Her novels have been translated into 35 languages. In 2010, she was selected as one of The New Yorker's "20 Under 40" writers to watch. In 2011, Nicole Krauss won an award from the Anisfield-Wolf Book Awards for Great House.
Nikola Tesla (/ˈtɛslə/; Serbo-Croatian: [nǐkola têsla]; Serbian Cyrillic: Никола Тесла; 10 July 1856 – 7 January 1943) was a Serbian-American inventor, electrical engineer, mechanical engineer, and futurist who is best known for his contributions to the design of the modern alternating current (AC) electricity supply system.   Born and raised in the Austrian Empire, Tesla received an advanced education in engineering and physics in the 1870s and gained practical experience in the early 1880s working in telephony and at Continental Edison in the new electric power industry. He emigrated to the United States in 1884, where he would become a naturalized citizen. He worked for a short time at the Edison Machine Works in New York City before he struck out on his own. With the help of partners to finance and market his ideas, Tesla set up laboratories and companies in New York to develop a range of electrical and mechanical devices. His alternating current (AC) induction motor and related polyphase AC patents, licensed by Westinghouse Electric in 1888, earned him a considerable amount of money and became the cornerstone of the polyphase system which that company would eventually market.   Attempting to develop inventions he could patent and market, Tesla conducted a range of experiments with mechanical oscillators/generators, electrical discharge tubes, and early X-ray imaging. He also built a wireless-controlled boat, one of the first ever exhibited. Tesla became well known as an inventor and would demonstrate his achievements to celebrities and wealthy patrons at his lab, and was noted for his showmanship at public lectures. Throughout the 1890s, Tesla pursued his ideas for wireless lighting and worldwide wireless electric power distribution in his high-voltage, high-frequency power experiments in New York and Colorado Springs. In 1893, he made pronouncements on the possibility of wireless communication with his devices. Tesla tried to put these ideas to practical use in his unfinished Wardenclyffe Tower project, an intercontinental wireless communication and power transmitter, but ran out of funding before he could complete it.   After Wardenclyffe, Tesla experimented with a series of inventions in the 1910s and 1920s with varying degrees of success. Having spent most of his money, Tesla lived in a series of New York hotels, leaving behind unpaid bills. He died in New York City in January 1943. Tesla's work fell into relative obscurity following his death, until 1960, when the General Conference on Weights and Measures named the SI unit of magnetic flux density the tesla in his honor. There has been a resurgence in popular interest in Tesla since the 1990s.
Nikos Kazantzakis (Greek: Νίκος Καζαντζάκης [ˈnikos kazanˈd͡zacis]; 18 February 1883 – 26 October 1957) was a Greek writer. Widely considered a giant of modern Greek literature, he was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature in nine different years.   Kazantzakis' novels included Zorba the Greek (published 1946 as Life and Times of Alexis Zorbas), Christ Recrucified (1948), Captain Michalis (1950, translated Freedom and Death), and The Last Temptation of Christ (1955). He also wrote plays, travel books, memoirs and philosophical essays such as The Saviors of God: Spiritual Exercises. His fame spread in the English-speaking world due to cinematic adaptations of Zorba the Greek (1964) and The Last Temptation of Christ (1988).   He translated also a number of notable works into Modern Greek, such as the Divine Comedy, Thus Spoke Zarathustra and the Iliad.
Nina George (30 August 1973 in Bielefeld) is a German writer, best known as the author of The Little Paris Bookshop, an international bestseller, that has been translated in more than 28 languages as of 2015, and sold in more than 500.000 copies. She has published 26 books (novels, mysteries and non-fiction) as well as over hundred short stories and more than 600 columns. George has worked as a cop reporter, columnist and managing editor for a wide range of publications, including Hamburger Abendblatt, Die Welt, Der Hamburger, as well as TV Movie and Federwelt.   George writes also under three pen-names. She writes non-fiction about issues of love, sexuality and eroticism, under the pseudonym Anne West. Under her married name Nina Kramer she wrote a thriller in 2008. She also wrote detective novels with her husband and co-writer Jo Kramer, their pseudonym being Jean Bagnol.   In 2012 and 2013 she won the DeLiA and the Glauser-Prize. Her first bestselling novel The Little Paris Bookshop (first published in German as "Das Lavendelzimmer" on May 2, 2013). She moved to Concarneau in France where she now lives with her husband Jo Kramer.
Nirodbaran (17 November 1903 – 17 July 2006, Pondicherry) or "Nirod" for short, was the personal physician and scribe of Sri Aurobindo, and senior member of the Sri Aurobindo Ashram.  Life   He graduated from the University of Edinburgh with a degree in medicine. He was told about Sri Aurobindo and The Mother by Dilip Kumar Roy while in Paris. In 1930 he visited the Ashram and met the Mother. He then spent 2 or 3 years practising medicine in Burma, but this work failed to satisfy him. He returned to the Ashram with the intention of practising Yoga, and took up work as the resident doctor. He found to his surprise that poetry was one of the vocations taken up by some of the disciples. As Sri Aurobindo had already withdrawn from the public life of the ashram, he communicated with and instructed the sadhaks via letters, and Nirodbaran entered into a voluminous correspondence with Sri Aurobindo (receiving about 4000 letters), who encouraged and guided his attempts at poetry. He published a collection of his poems as Blossom of the Sun and 50 poems by Nirodbaran, which were revised and commented on by Sri Aurobindo.   In November 1938 Sri Aurobindo broke his leg and as a physician Nirodbaran was one of the disciples with medical knowledge who attend him while he recuperated.   Later he had published Talks with Sri Aurobindo (3 volumes), Correspondence with Sri Aurobindo (2 volumes), and his memoir 12 years with Sri Aurobindo, as well as various volumes of poetry and other writings.   Nirodbaran died peacefully on the evening of 17 July 2006 at the Ashram Nursing Home in Pondicherry. He was 102. He was buried at the Ashram's Cazanove Gardens the next day.  External links   - Twelve years with Sri Aurobindo Chapter 1 - about Sri Aurobindo's accident on 23/24 November 1938] - Nirodbaran - Name Index - brief bio - Supporting spiritual search
Nisargadatta Maharaj (17 April 1897 – 8 September 1981), born Maruti Shivrampant Kambli, was a Hindu guru of nondualism, belonging to the Inchagiri Sampradaya, a lineage of teachers from the Navnath Sampradaya and Lingayat Shaivism.   The publication in 1973 of I Am That, an English translation of his talks in Marathi by Maurice Frydman, brought him worldwide recognition and followers, especially from North America and Europe.
Nitya Prakash (born 19 February 1988) is an Indian author with 8 published titles in the paranormal, general fiction, banking and romance fiction genres. and a film writer. He is a Learning & Development professional with experience across sectors like banking, retail and financial services. Prakash is a recipient of Karmaveer Puraskaar, 2016. The award is given to citizens individually for their contribution in leading change and is not for any organization. He is involved with many organisations for the uplifment of the underprivileged children providing them with free education, shelter and food. He also provides technical training and job placements to the adolescents. He is also selected in the first batch of 'Mentor of Change' by NITI Aayog's Atal Innovation Mission.
Nolini Kanta Gupta (13 January 1889 – 7 February 1983) was a revolutionary, linguist, scholar, critic, poet, philosopher and yogi, and the most senior of Sri Aurobindo's disciples. He was born in Faridpur, East Bengal, to a cultured and prosperous Vaidya-Brahmin family. While in his teens he came under the influence of Sri Aurobindo, then a well known revolutionary fighting for independence against the British. When in his fourth year at Presidency College, Calcutta, he left a promising academic career and rejected a lucrative government job to join a small revolutionary group under Sri Aurobindo. In May 1908 he was among those arrested for conspiracy in the Alipore bomb case. Acquitted a year later, after having spent a year in jail, he worked as a sub-editor for the Dharma and the Karmayogin, two of Sri Aurobindo's Nationalist newspapers, in 1909 and 1910.   He was taught Greek, Latin, French and Italian by Sri Aurobindo himself and was among the four disciples who were with Aurobindo in 1910 at Pondicherry. When the Sri Aurobindo Ashram was founded in 1926, he settled permanently in Pondicherry serving the Mother and Sri Aurobindo as secretary of the ashram and later as one of its trustees. A prolific writer on a wide range of topics, he has about 60 books to his credit of which about 16 are in English and 44 in Bengali, as well as many articles and poems in English, Bengali and French.   Nolini Kanta Gupta died at the Sri Aurobindo Ashram on 7 February 1984.  Bibliography   - Collected Works of Nolini Kanta Gupta (8 volumes), Sri Aurobindo Ashram, Pondicherry 1. The Coming Race 2. Essays on Poetry and Mysticism 3. The Yoga of Sri Aurobindo 4-5. Light of Lights (poems) 6-7. Sweet Mother 8. Vedic Hymns   - Reminiscences (with K.Amrita) - Evolution and the Earthly Destiny - About Woman (a compilation, ed. by Sacar) - Tributes to Nolini Kanta Gupta ed. by Nirodbaran - Nolini: Arjuna of our Age by Dr.V.M.Reddy - Lights from Nolini Kanta Gupta External links   - Nolini Kanta Gupta including a brief life-sketch - Nolini page      This Indian biographical article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
Nora Ephron (/ˈɛfrən/ EF-rən; May 19, 1941 – June 26, 2012) was an American journalist, writer, and filmmaker. She is best known for her romantic comedy films and was nominated three times for the Academy Award for Best Writing: for Silkwood (1983), When Harry Met Sally... (1989), and Sleepless in Seattle (1993). She won a BAFTA Award for Best Original Screenplay for When Harry Met Sally.... She sometimes wrote with her sister Delia Ephron. Her last film was Julie & Julia (2009). Her first produced play, Imaginary Friends (2002), was honored as one of the ten best plays of the 2002–03 New York theatre season. She also co-authored the Drama Desk Award–winning theatrical production Love, Loss, and What I Wore. In 2013, Ephron received a posthumous Tony Award nomination for Best Play for Lucky Guy.
Nora Roberts (born Eleanor Marie Robertson on October 10, 1950) is an American author of more than 225 romance novels. She writes as J. D. Robb for the in Death series, and has also written under the pseudonyms Jill March and for publications in the U.K. as Sarah Hardesty.   Nora Roberts was the first author to be inducted into the Romance Writers of America Hall of Fame. As of 2011, her novels had spent a combined 861 weeks on The New York Times Best Seller list, including 176 weeks in the number-one spot.
Norbert Wiener (November 26, 1894 – March 18, 1964) was an American mathematician and philosopher. He was a professor of mathematics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). A child prodigy, Wiener later became an early researcher in stochastic and mathematical noise processes, contributing work relevant to electronic engineering, electronic communication, and control systems.   Wiener is considered the originator of cybernetics, a formalization of the notion of feedback, with implications for engineering, systems control, computer science, biology, neuroscience, philosophy, and the organization of society.
Norman Vincent Peale (May 31, 1898 – December 24, 1993) was an American minister and author known for his work in popularizing the concept of positive thinking, especially through his best-selling book The Power of Positive Thinking. He served as the pastor of Marble Collegiate Church, New York, from 1932 until his death, leading a Reformed Church in America congregation. Peale was a personal friend of President Richard Nixon. Donald Trump attended Peale's church while growing up, as well as marrying his first wife Ivana there. Peale's ideas and techniques were controversial, and he received frequent criticism both from church figures and from the psychiatric profession.
Norton Juster (born June 2, 1929) is an American academic, architect, and popular writer. He is best known as an author of children's books, notably for The Phantom Tollbooth and The Dot and the Line.
Oliver Goldsmith (10 November 1728 – 4 April 1774) was an Irish novelist, playwright and poet, who is best known for his novel The Vicar of Wakefield (1766), his pastoral poem The Deserted Village (1770), and his plays The Good-Natur'd Man (1768) and She Stoops to Conquer (1771, first performed in 1773). He is thought to have written the classic children's tale The History of Little Goody Two-Shoes (1765).
Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr. (/hoʊmz/; August 29, 1809 – October 7, 1894) was an American physician, poet, and polymath based in Boston. A member of the Fireside Poets, he was acclaimed by his peers as one of the best writers of the day. His most famous prose works are the "Breakfast-Table" series, which began with The Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table (1858). He was also an important medical reformer. In addition to his work as an author and poet, Holmes also served as a physician, professor, lecturer and inventor and, although he never practiced it, he received formal training in law.   Born in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Holmes was educated at Phillips Academy and Harvard College. After graduating from Harvard in 1829, he briefly studied law before turning to the medical profession. He began writing poetry at an early age; one of his most famous works, "Old Ironsides", was published in 1830 and was influential in the eventual preservation of the USS Constitution. Following training at the prestigious medical schools of Paris, Holmes was granted his Doctor of Medicine degree from Harvard Medical School in 1836. He taught at Dartmouth Medical School before returning to teach at Harvard and, for a time, served as dean there. During his long professorship, he became an advocate for various medical reforms and notably posited the controversial idea that doctors were capable of carrying puerperal fever from patient to patient. Holmes retired from Harvard in 1882 and continued writing poetry, novels and essays until his death in 1894.   Surrounded by Boston's literary elite—which included friends such as Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, and James Russell Lowell—Holmes made an indelible imprint on the literary world of the 19th century. Many of his works were published in The Atlantic Monthly, a magazine that he named. For his literary achievements and other accomplishments, he was awarded numerous honorary degrees from universities around the world. Holmes's writing often commemorated his native Boston area, and much of it was meant to be humorous or conversational. Some of his medical writings, notably his 1843 essay regarding the contagiousness of puerperal fever, were considered innovative for their time. He was often called upon to issue occasional poetry, or poems written specifically for an event, including many occasions at Harvard. Holmes also popularized several terms, including Boston Brahmin and anesthesia. He was the father of Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. of the Supreme Court of the United States.
Olivia Sudjic (born 1988) is a British fiction writer whose first book Sympathy received positive reviews in the press, from publications like the New York Times, The Guardian and The New Republic. The debut novel, published in 2017, is described by The Independent as being "...a knotty - sometimes confusing, but always smart - dissection of intimacy and interaction in the digital age."
Oprah Winfrey (born Orpah Gail Winfrey; January 29, 1954) is an American media executive, actress, talk show host, television producer and philanthropist. She is best known for her talk show The Oprah Winfrey Show, which was the highest-rated television program of its kind in history and was nationally syndicated from 1986 to 2011 in Chicago. Dubbed the "Queen of All Media", she was the richest African American of the 20th century and North America's first black multi-billionaire, and has been ranked the greatest black philanthropist in American history. She has also been sometimes ranked as the most influential woman in the world.   Winfrey was born into poverty in rural Mississippi to a teenage single mother and later raised in inner-city Milwaukee. She has stated that she was molested during her childhood and early teens and became pregnant at 14; her son was born prematurely and died in infancy. Winfrey was then sent to live with the man she calls her father, Vernon Winfrey, a barber in Tennessee, and landed a job in radio while still in high school. By 19, she was a co-anchor for the local evening news. Winfrey's often emotional, extemporaneous delivery eventually led to her transfer to the daytime talk show arena, and after boosting a third-rated local Chicago talk show to first place, she launched her own production company and became internationally syndicated.   Credited with creating a more intimate confessional form of media communication, Winfrey popularized and revolutionized the tabloid talk show genre pioneered by Phil Donahue. Through this medium, Winfrey broke 20th-century taboos and allowed LGBT people to enter the mainstream through television appearances. In 1994, she was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame.   By the mid-1990s, Winfrey had reinvented her show with a focus on literature, self-improvement, and spirituality. Though she was criticized for unleashing a confession culture, promoting controversial self-help ideas, and having an emotion-centered approach, she has also been praised for overcoming adversity to become a benefactor to others. Winfrey had also emerged as a political force in the 2008 presidential race, delivering about one million votes to Barack Obama in the razor close 2008 Democratic primary. In 2013, Winfrey was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Obama and honorary doctorate degrees from Duke and Harvard. In 2008, she formed her own network, Oprah Winfrey Network.
Orson Scott Card (born August 24, 1951) is an American novelist, critic, public speaker, essayist, and columnist. He writes in several genres but is known best for science fiction. His novel Ender's Game (1985) and its sequel Speaker for the Dead (1986) both won Hugo and Nebula Awards, making Card the only author to win both science fiction's top U.S. prizes in consecutive years. A feature film adaptation of Ender's Game, which Card co-produced, was released in 2013.   Card is a professor of English at Southern Virginia University, has written two books on creative writing, hosts writing bootcamps and workshops, and serves as a judge in the Writers of the Future contest. A great-great-grandson of Brigham Young, Card is a practicing member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). In addition to producing a large body of fiction works, he has also offered political, religious, and social commentary in his columns and other writing.
Osamu Dazai (太宰 治, Dazai Osamu, June 19, 1909 – June 13, 1948) was a Japanese author who is considered one of the foremost fiction writers of 20th-century Japan. A number of his most popular works, such as The Setting Sun (Shayō) and No Longer Human (Ningen Shikkaku), are considered modern-day classics in Japan. With a semi-autobiographical style and transparency into his personal life, Dazai’s stories have intrigued the minds of many readers.   His influences include Ryūnosuke Akutagawa, Murasaki Shikibu and Fyodor Dostoyevsky. While Dazai continues to be widely celebrated in Japan, he remains relatively unknown elsewhere with only a handful of his works available in English.
Oswald Chambers (24 July 1874 – 15 November 1917) was an early twentieth-century Scottish Baptist and Holiness Movement evangelist and teacher, best known for the devotional My Utmost for His Highest.
Ottessa Moshfegh (born May 20, 1981) is an American author and novelist. Her debut novel, Eileen, won the Hemingway Foundation/PEN Award, was shortlisted for the Booker Prize, and was a fiction finalist for the National Book Critics Circle Award.
Pablo is a Spanish male name. It is a Spanish form of the name Paul.  People   - Pablo Aimar, Argentine footballer - Pablo Armero, Colombian footballer - Pablo Bartholomew, Indian photojournalist - Pablo Brandán, Argentine footballer - Pablo Brenes, Costa Rican footballer - Pablo Casals, Catalan cello virtuoso - Pablo Couñago, Spanish footballer - Pablo Cuevas, Uruguayan tennis player - Pablo Escobar, Colombian drug lord - Pablo Francisco, Chilean American comedian - Pablo Galdames, Chilean footballer - Pablo P. Garcia, Filipino politician - Pablo Hernández Domínguez, known as Pablo, Spanish footballer - Pablo Ibañez (known commonly as Pablo), Spanish footballer - Pablo Lombi, Argentine field hockey player - Pablo Darío López, Argentine footballer - Pablo Lugo, Puerto Rican boxer - Pablo Manzoni, make-up artist known professionally in the 1960s and 70s as Pablo of Elizabeth Arden - Pablo Meana, Argentine volleyball player - Pablo Mills, British footballer - Pablo Miyazawa, Brazilian journalist - Pablo Neruda, Chilean winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature - Pablo Olmedo, Mexican distance runner - Pablo Picasso, Spanish painter, sculptor, and co-founder of cubism - Pablo Prigioni, Argentine National Basketball Association player - Pablo Salinas, Bolivian footballer - Pablo Sandoval, Major League Baseball player - Pablo de Sarasate, Spanish violinist and composer - Pablo Soto (software developer), Spanish computer specialist - Pablo Squella, Chilean middle-distance runner - Pablo Zabaleta, Argentinian footballer Fictional entities   - Pablo (comics), from The Adventures of Tintin - Pablo, a character who first appears in the Dora the Explorer episode, Pablo's Flute and reappears in Dora and Friends: Into the City - Pablo Sanchez, a character from the video game series Backyard Sports - Pablo, a character in Ernest Hemingway's novel For Whom the Bell Tolls(1940) - Pablo, the eponymous character from Cesare Pavese's novel Il Compagno (The Comrade) - Pablo, a cat who has achieved moderate fame on the OK Cupid website for his eccentric behaviour - Pablo, the protagonist of Pablo's Inferno, an indie comic limited series - Pablo, the penguin from The Backyardigans TV series - Pablo, the penguin from Walt Disney's animated film The Three Caballeros (1945) - Pablo, a character in John Steinbeck's novel Tortilla Flat (1935) - Pablo, an autistic boy, the protagonist from the Irish children's animation, "Pablo". - Pablo the Drug Mule Dog, the dog used to smuggle drugs into Britain in an anti-cocaine advertising campaign See also   - Paolo - Paulo - Pavel - Paul (disambiguation) - All pages beginning with Paul - Paul-Antoine - Jean-Paul (disambiguation) - John Paul (disambiguation) - John Paul Jones (disambiguation) - Pal (surname) - Juan Pablo, a common Spanish given name - Paula (given name), feminine of Pablo
Papal styles of Pope Benedict XVIReference styleHis HolinessSpoken styleYour HolinessReligious stylePope Emeritus   Pope Benedict XVI (Latin: Benedictus XVI; Italian: Benedetto XVI; German: Benedikt XVI; born Joseph Aloisius Ratzinger; German pronunciation: [ˈjoːzɛf ˈalɔʏzi̯ʊs ˈʁatsɪŋɐ]; 16 April 1927) was head of the Catholic Church and as sovereign of the Vatican City State from 2005 until his resignation in 2013. Benedict's election as pope occurred in the 2005 papal conclave that followed the death of Pope John Paul II. The Vatican bestowed on him the title pope emeritus shortly after his resignation.   Ordained as a priest in 1951 in his native Bavaria, Ratzinger had established himself as a highly regarded university theologian by the late 1950s and was appointed a full professor in 1958. After a long career as an academic and professor of theology at several German universities, he was appointed Archbishop of Munich and Freising and Cardinal by Pope Paul VI in 1977, an unusual promotion for someone with little pastoral experience. In 1981, he was appointed Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, one of the most important dicasteries of the Roman Curia. From 2002 until his election as pope, he was also Dean of the College of Cardinals. Prior to becoming Pope, he was "a major figure on the Vatican stage for a quarter of a century"; he had an influence "second to none when it came to setting church priorities and directions" as one of John Paul II's closest confidants. He has lived in Rome since 1981.   He was originally a liberal theologian, but adopted conservative views after 1968. His prolific writings defend traditional Catholic doctrine and values. During his papacy, Benedict XVI advocated a return to fundamental Christian values to counter the increased secularisation of many Western countries. He views relativism's denial of objective truth, and the denial of moral truths in particular, as the central problem of the 21st century. He taught the importance of both the Catholic Church and an understanding of God's redemptive love. Pope Benedict also revived a number of traditions, including elevating the Tridentine Mass to a more prominent position. He strengthened the relationship between the Catholic Church and art, promoted the use of Latin, and reintroduced traditional papal garments, for which reason he was called "the pope of aesthetics". He has been described as "the main intellectual force in the Church" since the mid-1980s.   On 11 February 2013, Benedict unexpectedly announced his resignation in a speech in Latin before the cardinals, citing a "lack of strength of mind and body" due to his advanced age. His resignation became effective on 28 February 2013. He is the first pope to resign since Gregory XII in 1415, and the first to do so on his own initiative since Celestine V in 1294. As pope emeritus, Benedict retains the style of His Holiness, and the title of pope, and continues to dress in the papal colour of white. He was succeeded by Pope Francis on 13 March 2013, and he moved into the newly renovated monastery Mater Ecclesiae for his retirement on 2 May 2013. In his retirement, Benedict XVI has made occasional public appearances alongside Pope Francis.
Papal styles of Pope John Paul IIReference styleHis HolinessSpoken styleYour HolinessReligious styleHoly FatherPosthumous styleSaint   Pope John Paul II (Latin: Ioannes Paulus II; Italian: Giovanni Paolo II; Polish: Jan Paweł II; born Karol Józef Wojtyła; [ˈkarɔl ˈjuzɛv vɔjˈtɨwa]; 18 May 1920 – 2 April 2005) was head of the Catholic Church and sovereign of the Vatican City State from 1978 to 2005.   He was elected pope by the second Papal conclave of 1978, which was called after Pope John Paul I, who had been elected in August to succeed Pope Paul VI, died after 33 days. Cardinal Wojtyła was elected on the third day of the conclave and adopted his predecessor's name in tribute to him. John Paul II is recognised as helping to end Communist rule in his native Poland and eventually all of Europe. John Paul II significantly improved the Catholic Church's relations with Judaism, Islam, the Eastern Orthodox Church, and the Anglican Communion. He upheld the Church's teachings on such matters as artificial contraception, the ordination of women, and a celibate clergy, and although he supported the reforms of the Second Vatican Council, he was seen as generally conservative in their interpretation.   He was one of the most travelled world leaders in history, visiting 129 countries during his pontificate. As part of his special emphasis on the universal call to holiness, he beatified 1,340 and canonised 483 people, more than the combined tally of his predecessors during the preceding five centuries. By the time of his death, he had named most of the College of Cardinals, consecrated or co-consecrated a large number of the world's bishops, and ordained many priests. A key goal of John Paul's papacy was to transform and reposition the Catholic Church. His wish was "to place his Church at the heart of a new religious alliance that would bring together Jews, Muslims and Christians in a great religious armada".   John Paul II was the second longest-serving pope in modern history after Pope Pius IX, who served for nearly 32 years from 1846 to 1878. Born in Poland, John Paul II was the first non-Italian pope since the Dutch Pope Adrian VI, who served from 1522 to 1523. John Paul II's cause for canonisation commenced in 2005 one month after his death with the traditional five-year waiting period waived. On 19 December 2009, John Paul II was proclaimed Venerable by his successor Pope Benedict XVI and was beatified on 1 May 2011 (Divine Mercy Sunday) after the Congregation for the Causes of Saints attributed one miracle to his intercession, the healing of a French nun from Parkinson's disease. A second miracle attributed to John Paul II's intercession was approved on 2 July 2013, and confirmed by Pope Francis two days later (two miracles must be attributed to a person's intercession to be declared a saint). John Paul II was canonised on 27 April 2014 (again Divine Mercy Sunday), together with Pope John XXIII. On 11 September 2014, Pope Francis added these two optional memorials to the worldwide General Roman Calendar of saints, in response to worldwide requests. It is traditional to celebrate saints' feast days on the anniversary of their deaths, but that of John Paul II (22 October) is celebrated on the anniversary of his papal inauguration. Posthumously, he has been referred to by some Catholics as "St. John Paul the Great", although the title has no official recognition.
Paramahansa Yogananda (Bengali: পরমহংস যোগানন্দ) (5 January 1893 – 7 March 1952), born Mukunda Lal Ghosh (Bengali: মুকুন্দলাল ঘোষ), was an Indian yogi and guru who introduced millions of Indians and westerners to the teachings of meditation and Kriya Yoga through his organization Yogoda Satsanga Society of India and Self-Realization Fellowship. In 1946, he published his autobiography, titled Autobiography of a Yogi which is on the list of the "100 best spiritual books of the 20th Century" created by HarperSan Francisco, a division of HarperCollins Publishers. The book has been regularly reprinted ever since and is known as "the book that changed the lives of millions."
Patricia Briggs (born 1965) is an American writer of fantasy since 1993, and author of the Mercy Thompson urban fantasy series.
Patricia Highsmith (January 19, 1921 – February 4, 1995) was an American novelist and short story writer best known for her psychological thrillers, including her series of five novels featuring the character Tom Ripley. She wrote 22 novels and numerous short stories throughout her career spanning nearly five decades, and her work has led to more than two dozen film adaptations. Her writing derived influence from existentialist literature, and questioned notions of identity and popular morality. She was dubbed "the poet of apprehension" by novelist Graham Greene.   Her first novel, Strangers on a Train, has been adapted for stage and screen numerous times, notably by Alfred Hitchcock in 1951. Her 1955 novel The Talented Mr. Ripley has been adapted numerous times for film, theatre, and radio. Writing under the pseudonym "Claire Morgan," Highsmith published the first lesbian novel with a happy ending, The Price of Salt, republished 38 years later as Carol under her own name and later adapted into a 2015 film.
Patrick Ness (born 17 October 1971) is a British-American author, journalist, lecturer and screenwriter. Born in the United States, Ness moved to London and holds dual citizenship. He is best known for his books for young adults, including the Chaos Walking trilogy and A Monster Calls.   Ness won the annual Carnegie Medal from the British librarians both in 2011 and in 2012, for Monsters of Men and A Monster Calls, recognising each as the best new book for children or adults published in the UK. He is one of seven writers to win two Medals (no one has won three) and the second to win consecutively.   He wrote the screenplay of the 2016 film adaptation of A Monster Calls, and is the creator and writer of the Doctor Who spin-off series Class.
Paul Brunton is the pen name of Raphael Hurst (21 October 1898 – 27 July 1981), a British theosophist and spiritualist. He is best known as one of the early popularizers of Neo-Hindu spiritualism in western esotericism, notably via his bestselling A Search in Secret India (1934).   Brunton was a proponent of a doctrine of "Mentalism", or Oriental Mentalism to distinguish it from subjective idealism of the western tradition. Brunton expounds his doctrine of Mentalism in The Hidden Teachings Beyond Yoga (1941) and in The Wisdom of the Overself (1943).
Paul-Michel Foucault (/fuːˈkoʊ/; 15 October 1926 – 25 June 1984), generally known as Michel Foucault (French: [miʃɛl fuko]), was a French philosopher, historian of ideas, social theorist, and literary critic.   Foucault's theories primarily address the relationship between power and knowledge, and how they are used as a form of social control through societal institutions. Though often cited as a post-structuralist and postmodernist, Foucault rejected these labels, preferring to present his thought as a critical history of modernity. His thought has influenced academics, especially those working in communication studies, sociology, cultural studies, literary theory, feminism, and critical theory. Activist groups have also found his theories compelling.   Born in Poitiers, France, into an upper-middle-class family, Foucault was educated at the Lycée Henri-IV, at the École Normale Supérieure, where he developed an interest in philosophy and came under the influence of his tutors Jean Hyppolite and Louis Althusser, and at the University of Paris (Sorbonne), where he earned degrees in philosophy and psychology. After several years as a cultural diplomat abroad, he returned to France and published his first major book, The History of Madness (1961). After obtaining work between 1960 and 1966 at the University of Clermont-Ferrand, he produced The Birth of the Clinic (1963) and The Order of Things (1966), publications which displayed his increasing involvement with structuralism, from which he later distanced himself. These first three histories exemplified a historiographical technique Foucault was developing called "archaeology".   From 1966 to 1968, Foucault lectured at the University of Tunis before returning to France, where he became head of the philosophy department at the new experimental university of Paris VIII. Foucault subsequently published The Archaeology of Knowledge (1969). In 1970, Foucault was admitted to the Collège de France, a membership he retained until his death. He also became active in a number of left-wing groups involved in campaigns against racism and human rights abuses and for penal reform. Foucault later published Discipline and Punish (1975) and The History of Sexuality (1976), in which he developed archaeological and genealogical methods which emphasized the role that power plays in society.   Foucault died in Paris of neurological problems compounded by HIV/AIDS; he became the first public figure in France to die from the disease. His partner Daniel Defert founded the AIDES charity in his memory.
Paul Thomas Mann (German: [paʊ̯l toːmas man]; 6 June 1875 – 12 August 1955) was a German novelist, short story writer, social critic, philanthropist, essayist, and the 1929 Nobel Prize in Literature laureate. His highly symbolic and ironic epic novels and novellas are noted for their insight into the psychology of the artist and the intellectual. His analysis and critique of the European and German soul used modernized versions of German and Biblical stories, as well as the ideas of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Friedrich Nietzsche and Arthur Schopenhauer.   Mann was a member of the Hanseatic Mann family and portrayed his family and class in his first novel, Buddenbrooks. His older brother was the radical writer Heinrich Mann and three of Mann's six children, Erika Mann, Klaus Mann and Golo Mann, also became significant German writers. When Adolf Hitler came to power in 1933, Mann fled to Switzerland. When World War II broke out in 1939, he moved to the United States, then returned to Switzerland in 1952. Mann is one of the best-known exponents of the so-called Exilliteratur, German literature written in exile by those who opposed the Hitler regime.   Mann's work influenced many later authors, including Heinrich Böll, Joseph Heller, Yukio Mishima, and Orhan Pamuk.
Pavitra (January 16, 1894 – May 16, 1969) (from the Sanskrit word for "pure") was one of the very early disciples of Sri Aurobindo and The Mother. The name was one of Srimati Radharani's 1000 names.
Pema Chödrön (born Deirdre Blomfield-Brown July 14, 1936) is an American Tibetan Buddhist. She is an ordained nun, acharya and disciple of Chögyam Trungpa Rinpoche. Chödrön has written several dozen books and audiobooks, and is principal teacher at Gampo Abbey in Nova Scotia, Canada.
Percy Bysshe Shelley (/bɪʃ/ ( BISH; 4 August 1792 – 8 July 1822) was one of the major English Romantic poets, who is regarded by some as among the finer lyric and philosophical poets in the English language, and one of the more influential. A radical in his poetry as well as in his political and social views, Shelley did not see fame during his lifetime, but recognition of his achievements in poetry grew steadily following his death. Shelley was a key member of a close circle of visionary poets and writers that included Lord Byron, Leigh Hunt, Thomas Love Peacock, and his own second wife, Mary Shelley, the author of Frankenstein.   Shelley is perhaps best known for classic poems such as Ozymandias, Ode to the West Wind, To a Skylark, Music, When Soft Voices Die, The Cloud and The Masque of Anarchy. His other major works include a groundbreaking verse drama The Cenci (1819) and long, visionary, philosophical poems such as Queen Mab (later reworked as The Daemon of the World), Alastor, The Revolt of Islam, Adonaïs, Prometheus Unbound (1820)—widely considered to be his masterpiece—Hellas: A Lyrical Drama (1821), and his final, unfinished work, The Triumph of Life (1822).   Shelley's close circle of friends included some of the more important progressive thinkers of the day, including his father-in-law, the philosopher William Godwin, and Leigh Hunt. Though Shelley's poetry and prose output remained steady throughout his life, most publishers and journals declined to publish his work for fear of being arrested for either blasphemy or sedition. Shelley's poetry sometimes had only an underground readership during his day, but his poetic achievements are widely recognized today, and his political and social thought had an impact on the Chartist and other movements in England, and reach down to the present day. Shelley's theories of economics and morality, for example, had a profound influence on Karl Marx; his early—perhaps first—writings on nonviolent resistance influenced Leo Tolstoy, whose writings on the subject in turn influenced Mahatma Gandhi, and through him Martin Luther King Jr. and others practicing nonviolence during the American Civil Rights Movement.   Shelley became a lodestone to the subsequent three or four generations of poets, including important Victorian and Pre-Raphaelite poets such as Robert Browning and Dante Gabriel Rossetti. He was admired by Oscar Wilde, Thomas Hardy, George Bernard Shaw, Leo Tolstoy, Bertrand Russell, W. B. Yeats, Upton Sinclair and Isadora Duncan. Henry David Thoreau's Civil Disobedience was apparently influenced by Shelley's writings and theories on non-violence in protest and political action. Shelley's popularity and influence has continued to grow in contemporary poetry circles.
Perfect (2011) (YA) Triangles Novels   - Triangles (2011) (A) hgh - Tilt (2012) (YA) Tricks Novels   - Tricks (2009) (YA) - Traffick (Fall 2015) (YA) Other Novels   - Identical (2008) (YA) - Collateral (2012) (A) - Rumble (2014) (YA) - Love Lies Beneath (July 2015) (A) - The You I've Never Known (January 2017) (YA) - People Kill People (2018) (YA) Personal life   Hopkins was adopted by Albert and Valeria Wagner when they were 72 and 42, respectively. Her first poem was published in the Palm Springs Desert Sun when she was nine. She attended high school in Santa Ynez Valley and went on to study journalism at the University of California, Santa Barbara before dropping out to start a family and a business. She had two children; Jason and Cristal. When her marriage failed, she sold her business and began freelance work. Following her divorce, she had a daughter, Kelly, with a man she considered to be a 'rebound'. He was abusive and kidnapped Kelly, keeping her in secrecy for three years. She was found later by his grandmother. Around 1991, she married John Hopkins, her current husband. They also adopted their daughter Cristal's son, Orion. In 1990, Ellen Hopkins and her family moved to northern Nevada. During this time she decided to write for a living. She started out freelancing newspaper and magazine articles, then moved from there into children’s nonfiction.   Later in life, she found her biological mother, Toni Chandler, who was also a writer and poet. Hopkins believes most of her writing talent originates from her own talent and also from her adoptive mother. She also considers her fifth grade teacher the first person to encourage her to become a professional writer.  Poetry This article contains content that is written like an advertisement. Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate external links, and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral point of view. (August 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)   Ellen Hopkins has been writing poetry for as long as she can remember. Although she didn't know her birth mother in her earlier years, Hopkins found out that her birth mother also writes poetry, and has done for her entire life.   This is an excerpt of Hopkins' poem, Dry Spell:  Dry Spell   You are like rain, forecasted  to quench a summer‚ thirsting,  thirst grown beyond easy need, to life or death.    I watch the clouds,  approaching windward mountains, slate  bruising black beneath expectation.    The western window  darkens as, laden, the curtain falls,  descends to veil peaks and rifts, draws nearer.    Is it thunder that I hear?  Or is the sudden rumble but the flurry  of hurried birds, on wing against unceasing drought?   References    1. ^ "Ellen Hopkins".  2. ^ "About".  3. ^ "Ellen Hopkins FAQ". Missing or empty |url= (help); |access-date= requires |url= (help)  4. ^ [ellenhopkins.livejournal.com/ "Ellen Hopkins Live Journal"] Check |url= value (help).  5. ^ a b c "Bio".  6. ^ "Page Title".  7. ^ "Powells.com Ink Q&A - Ellen Hopkins - Powell's Books". Archived from the original on 2008-05-17.  8. ^ "Poetry".  External links    - Children and Young Adult Literature portal   - Official Website - Ellen Hopkins' Facebook - Ellen Hopkins: Ellen Hopkins' Livejournal - Myspace Page - Ellen Hopkins' Twitter Stream - Publisher's Weekly interview - Interview at Powells.com
Pessoa's earliest heteronym, at the age of six, was Chevalier de Pas. Other childhood heteronyms included Dr. Pancrácio and David Merrick, followed by Charles Robert Anon, an English young man that became Pessoa's alter ego. In 1905/7, when Pessoa was a student at the University of Lisbon, Alexander Search took the place of Anon. The main reason for this was that, although Search is English, he was born in Lisbon as his author. But Search represents a transition heteronym that Pessoa used while searching to adapt to the Portuguese cultural reality. After the republican revolution, in 1910, and consequent patriotic atmosphere, Pessoa created another alter ego, Álvaro de Campos, supposedly a Portuguese naval engineer, born in Tavira and graduated in Glasgow. Translator Richard Zenith notes that Pessoa eventually established at least seventy-two heteronyms. According to Pessoa himself, there were three main heteronyms: Alberto Caeiro, Álvaro de Campos and Ricardo Reis. The heteronyms possess distinct biographies, temperaments, philosophies, appearances, writing styles and even signatures.   Pessoa wrote on the heteronyms:    How do I write in the name of these three? Caeiro, through sheer and unexpected inspiration, without knowing or even suspecting that I’m going to write in his name. Ricardo Reis, after an abstract meditation, which suddenly takes concrete shape in an ode. Campos, when I feel a sudden impulse to write and don’t know what. (My semi-heteronym Bernardo Soares, who in many ways resembles Álvaro de Campos, always appears when I'm sleepy or drowsy, so that my qualities of inhibition and rational thought are suspended; his prose is an endless reverie. He’s a semi-heteronym because his personality, although not my own, doesn’t differ from my own but is a mere mutilation of it. He’s me without my rationalism and emotions. His prose is the same as mine, except for certain formal restraint that reason imposes on my own writing, and his Portuguese is exactly the same – whereas Caeiro writes bad Portuguese, Campos writes it reasonably well but with mistakes such as "me myself" instead of "I myself", etc.., and Reis writes better than I, but with a purism I find excessive...).   List of known heteronyms Alberto Caeiro   Alberto Caeiro was Pessoa's first great heteronym; it is summarized by Pessoa as follows: "He sees things with the eyes only, not with the mind. He does not let any thoughts arise when he looks at a flower... the only thing a stone tells him is that it has nothing at all to tell him... this way of looking at a stone may be described as the totally unpoetic way of looking at it. The stupendous fact about Caeiro is that out of this sentiment, or rather, absence of sentiment, he makes poetry."[citation needed]   What this means, and what makes Caeiro such an original poet is the way he apprehends existence. He does not question anything whatsoever; he calmly accepts the world as it is. The recurrent themes to be found in nearly all of Caeiro's poems are wide-eyed childlike wonder at the infinite variety of nature, as noted by a critic. He is free of metaphysical entanglements. Central to his world-view is the idea that in the world around us, all is surface: things are precisely what they seem, there is no hidden meaning anywhere.   He manages thus to free himself from the anxieties that batter his peers; for Caeiro, things simply exist and we have no right to credit them with more than that. Caeiro attains happiness by not questioning, and by thus avoiding doubts and uncertainties. He apprehends reality solely through his eyes, through his senses. Octavio Paz called him the innocent poet. Paz made a shrewd remark on the heteronyms: In each are particles of negation or unreality. Reis believes in form, Campos in sensation, Pessoa in symbols. Caeiro doesn't believe in anything. He exists.   Poetry before Caeiro was essentially interpretative; what poets did was to offer an interpretation of their perceived surroundings; Caeiro does not do this. Instead, he attempts to communicate his senses, and his feelings, without any interpretation whatsoever.   Caeiro attempts to approach Nature from a qualitatively different mode of apprehension; that of simply perceiving (an approach akin to phenomenological approaches to philosophy). Poets before him would make use of intricate metaphors to describe what was before them; not so Caeiro: his self-appointed task is to bring these objects to the reader's attention, as directly and simply as possible. Caeiro sought a direct experience of the objects before him.   As such it is not surprising to find that Caeiro has been called an anti-intellectual, anti-Romantic, anti-subjectivist, anti-metaphysical...an anti-poet, by critics; Caeiro simply—is. He is in this sense very unlike his creator Fernando Pessoa: Pessoa was besieged by metaphysical uncertainties; these were, to a large extent, the cause of his unhappiness; not so Caeiro: his attitude is anti-metaphysical; he avoided uncertainties by adamantly clinging to a certainty: his belief that there is no meaning behind things. Things, for him, simply—are.   Caeiro represents a primal vision of reality, of things. He is the pagan incarnate. Indeed, Caeiro was not simply a pagan but paganism itself.   The critic Jane M. Sheets sees the insurgence of Caeiro—who was Pessoa's first major heteronym—as essential in founding the later poetic personas: By means of this artless yet affirmative anti-poet, Caeiro, a short-lived but vital member of his coterie, Pessoa acquired the base of an experienced and universal poetic vision. After Caeiro's tenets had been established, the avowedly poetic voices of Campos, Reis and Pessoa himself spoke with greater assurance.  Ricardo Reis   In a letter to William Bentley, Pessoa wrote that "a knowledge of the language would be indispensable, for instance, to appraise the 'Odes' of Ricardo Reis, whose Portuguese would draw upon him the blessing of António Vieira, as his stile and diction that of Horace (he has been called, admirably I believe, 'a Greek Horace who writes in Portuguese')".   Reis, both a character and a heteronym of Fernando Pessoa himself, sums up his philosophy of life in his own words, admonishing, "See life from a distance. Never question it. There's nothing it can tell you." Like Caeiro, whom he admires, Reis defers from questioning life. He is a modern pagan who urges one to seize the day and accept fate with tranquility. "Wise is the one who does not seek. The seeker will find in all things the abyss, and doubt in himself."[citation needed] In this sense, Reis shares essential affinities with Caeiro.   Believing in the Greek gods, yet living in a Christian Europe, Reis feels that his spiritual life is limited and true happiness cannot be attained. This, added to his belief in Fate as a driving force for all that exists, as such disregarding freedom, leads to his epicureanist philosophy, which entails the avoidance of pain, defending that man should seek tranquility and calm above all else, avoiding emotional extremes.   Where Caeiro wrote freely and spontaneously, with joviality, of his basic, meaningless connection to the world, Reis writes in an austere, cerebral manner, with premeditated rhythm and structure and a particular attention to the correct use of the language when approaching his subjects of, as characterized by Richard Zenith, "the brevity of life, the vanity of wealth and struggle, the joy of simple pleasures, patience in time of trouble, and avoidance of extremes".   In his detached, intellectual approach, he is closer to Fernando Pessoa's constant rationalization, as such representing the orthonym's wish for measure and sobriety and a world free of troubles and respite, in stark contrast to Caeiro's spirit and style. As such, where Caeiro's predominant attitude is that of joviality, his sadness being accepted as natural ("My sadness is a comfort for it is natural and right."), Reis is marked by melancholy, saddened by the impermanence of all things.   Ricardo Reis is the main character of José Saramago's 1986 novel The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis.  Álvaro de Campos Main article: Álvaro de Campos   Álvaro de Campos manifests, in a way, as an hyperbolic version of Pessoa himself. Of the three heteronyms he is the one who feels most strongly, his motto being 'to feel everything in every way.' 'The best way to travel,' he wrote, 'is to feel.' As such, his poetry is the most emotionally intense and varied, constantly juggling two fundamental impulses: on the one hand a feverish desire to be and feel everything and everyone, declaring that 'in every corner of my soul stands an altar to a different god' (alluding to Walt Whitman's desire to 'contain multitudes'), on the other, a wish for a state of isolation and a sense of nothingness.   As a result, his mood and principles varied between violent, dynamic exultation, as he fervently wishes to experience the entirety of the universe in himself, in all manners possible (a particularly distinctive trait in this state being his futuristic leanings, including the expression of great enthusiasm as to the meaning of city life and its components) and a state of nostalgic melancholy, where life is viewed as, essentially, empty.   One of the poet's constant preoccupations, as part of his dichotomous character, is that of identity: he does not know who he is, or rather, fails at achieving an ideal identity. Wanting to be everything, and inevitably failing, he despairs. Unlike Caeiro, who asks nothing of life, he asks too much. In his poetic meditation 'Tobacco Shop' he asks:    How should I know what I'll be, I who don't know what I am?    Be what I think? But I think of being so many things!   Summaries of selected works Message  Mensagem, first edition, 1934.   Mensagem, written in Portuguese, is a symbolist epic made up of 44 short poems organized in three parts or Cycles:   The first, called "Brasão" (Coat-of-Arms), relates Portuguese historical protagonists to each of the fields and charges in the Portuguese coat of arms. The first two poems ("The castles" and "The escutcheons") draw inspiration from the material and spiritual natures of Portugal. Each of the remaining poems associates to each charge a historical personality. Ultimately they all lead to the Golden Age of Discovery.   The second Part, called "Mar Português" (Portuguese Sea), references the country's Age of Portuguese Exploration and to its seaborne Empire that ended with the death of King Sebastian at El-Ksar el Kebir (Alcácer-Quibir in Portuguese) in 1578. Pessoa brings the reader to the present as if he had woken up from a dream of the past, to fall in a dream of the future: he sees King Sebastian returning and still bent on accomplishing a Universal Empire.   The third Cycle, called "O Encoberto" ("The Hidden One"), refers to Pessoa's vision of a future world of peace and the Fifth Empire (which, according to Pessoa, is spiritual and not material, because if it were material England would already have achieved it). After the Age of Force, (Vis), and Taedium (Otium) will come Science (understanding) through a reawakening of "The Hidden One", or "King Sebastian". The Hidden One represents the fulfillment of the destiny of mankind, designed by God since before Time, and the accomplishment of Portugal.   King Sebastian is very important, indeed he appears in all three parts of Mensagem. He represents the capacity of dreaming, and believing that it's possible to achieve dreams.   One of the most famous quotes from Mensagem is the first line from O Infante (belonging to the second Part), which is Deus quer, o homem sonha, a obra nasce (which translates roughly to "God wishes, man dreams, the work is born"). Another well-known quote from Mensagem is the first line from Ulysses, "O mito é o nada que é tudo" (a possible translation is "The myth is the nothing that is all"). This poem refers to Ulysses, king of Ithaca, as Lisbon's founder (recalling an ancient Greek myth).   A Águia, journal of the Portuguese Renaissance, nr. 4, April 1912. Literary essays   In 1912, Fernando Pessoa wrote a set of essays (later collected as The New Portuguese Poetry) for the cultural journal A Águia (The Eagle), founded in Oporto, in December 1910, and run by the republican association Renascença Portuguesa. In the first years of the Portuguese Republic, this cultural association was started by republican intellectuals led by the writer and poet Teixeira de Pascoaes, philosopher Leonardo Coimbra and historian Jaime Cortesão, aiming for the renewal of Portuguese culture through the aesthetic movement called Saudosismo. Pessoa contributed to the journal A Águia with a series of papers: 'The new Portuguese Poetry Sociologically Considered' (nr. 4), 'Relapsing...' (nr. 5) and 'The Psychological Aspect of the new Portuguese Poetry' (nrs. 9,11 and 12). These writings were strongly encomiastic to saudosist literature, namely the poetry of Teixeira de Pascoaes and Mário Beirão. The articles disclose Pessoa as a connoisseur of modern European literature and an expert of recent literary trends. On the other hand, he does not care much for a methodology of analysis or problems in the history of ideas. He states his confidence that Portugal would soon produce a great poet – a super-Camões – pledged to make an important contribution for European culture, and indeed, for humanity.  Philosophical essays   The philosophical notes of young Fernando Pessoa, mostly written between 1905 and 1912, illustrate his debt to the history of Philosophy more through commentators than through a first-hand protracted reading of the Classics, ancient or modern.[citation needed] The issues he engages with pertain to every philosophical discipline and concern a large profusion of concepts, creating a vast semantic spectrum in texts whose length oscillates between half a dozen lines and half a dozen pages and whose density of analysis is extremely variable; simple paraphrasis, expression of assumptions and original speculation.   Pessoa sorted the philosophical systems thus:   A passage from his famous poem "Mar Português" from Message, in the city of Lagos, Portugal.   1. Relative Spiritualism and relative Materialism privilege "Spirit" or "Matter" as the main pole that organizes data around Experience. 2. Absolute Spiritualist and Absolute Materialist "deny all objective reality to one of the elements of Experience". 3. The materialistic Pantheism of Spinoza and the spiritualizing Pantheism of Malebranche, "admit that experience is a double manifestation of any thing that in its essence has no matter neither spirit". 4. Considering both elements as an "illusory manifestation", of a transcendent and true and alone realities, there is Transcendentalism, inclined into matter with Schopenhauer, or into spirit, a position where Bergson could be emplaced. 5. A terminal system "the limited and summit of metaphysics" would not radicalize – as poles of experience one of the singled categories – matter, relative, absolute, real, illusory, spirit. Instead, matching all categories, it takes contradiction as "the essence of the universe" and defends that "an affirmation is so more true insofar the more contradiction involves". The transcendent must be conceived beyond categories. There is one only and eternal example of it. It is that cathedral of thought -the philosophy of Hegel.   Such pantheist transcendentalism is used by Pessoa to define the project that "encompasses and exceeds all systems"; to characterize the new poetry of Saudosismo where the "typical contradiction of this system" occurs; to inquire of the particular social and political results of its adoption as the leading cultural paradigm; and, at last, he hints that metaphysics and religiosity strive "to find in everything a beyond".  Works   - Histórias de um Raciocinador e o ensaio "História Policial" (Tales of a Reasoner and the essay "Detective Story") bilingual edition, translated from the original writings in English, Ana Maria Freitas, edit & transl, Lisbon, Portugal: Assírio & Alvim, 2012, ISBN 978-972-0-79312-6, archived from the original on 14 January 2013 - Forever Someone Else – selected poems – 2nd edition (enlarged), Richard Zenith, transl, Lisbon, Portugal: Assírio & Alvim, 2010 , ISBN 978-972-37-1379-4, archived from the original on 14 January 2013 - Collected Poems of Álvaro de Campos, Chris Daniels, transl, Exeter, UK: Shearsman Books, 2009 [1928–35], ISBN 978-1-905700-25-7, archived from the original on 18 December 2010, retrieved 28 July 2010 - Lisbon: What the Tourist Should See, Exeter, UK: Shearsman Books, 2008, ISBN 978-1-905700-25-7, archived from the original on 2 April 2011, retrieved 28 July 2010 - The Collected Poems of Alberto Caeiro, Chris Daniels, transl, Exeter, UK: Shearsman Books, 2007, ISBN 978-1-905700-24-0, archived from the original on 4 April 2011, retrieved 28 July 2010 - Selected English Poems, Exeter, UK: Shearsman Books, 2007, ISBN 978-1-905700-26-4, archived from the original on 2 April 2011, retrieved 28 July 2010 - Message, Jonathan Griffin, transl, Exeter, UK: Shearsman Books, 2007, ISBN 978-1-905700-27-1, archived from the original on 2 April 2011, retrieved 28 July 2010 - Selected English Poems , ed. Tony Frazer, Exeter (UK): Shearsman Books, 2007. ISBN 1-905700-26-1 - A Centenary Pessoa, tr. Keith Bosley & L. C. Taylor, foreword by Octavio Paz, Carcanet Press, 2006. ISBN 1-85754-724-1 - A Little Larger Than the Entire Universe: Selected Poems, tr. Richard Zenith, Penguin Classics, 2006. ISBN 0-14-303955-5 - The Education of the Stoic, tr. Richard Zenith, afterword by Antonio Tabucchi, Exact Change, 2004. ISBN 1-878972-40-5 - The Book of Disquiet, tr. Richard Zenith, Penguin classics, 2003. ISBN 978-0-14-118304-6 - The Selected Prose of Fernando Pessoa, tr. Richard Zenith, Grove Press, 2002. ISBN 0-8021-3914-0 - Sheep's Vigil by a Fervent Person: A Transelation of Alberto Caeiro/Fernando Pessoa, tr. Eirin Moure, House of Anansi, 2001. ISBN 0-88784-660-2 - The Selected Prose of Fernando Pessoa, Richard Zenith, transl, New York, USA: Grove Press, 2001, ISBN 978-0-8021-3914-6 - Selected Poems: with New Supplement tr. Jonathan Griffin, Penguin Classics; 2nd edition, 2000. ISBN 0-14-118433-7 - Fernando Pessoa & Co: Selected Poems, tr. Richard Zenith, Grove Press, 1999. ISBN 0-8021-3627-3 - Poems of Fernando Pessoa, Edwin Honig & Susan Brown, transl, San Francisco, USA: City Lights Books, 1998, ISBN 978-0-87286-342-2 - The Keeper of Sheep, bilingual edition, tr. Edwin Honig & Susan M. Brown, Sheep Meadow, 1997. ISBN 1-878818-45-7 - Message, tr. Jonathan Griffin, introduction by Helder Macedo, Menard Press, 1992. ISBN 1-905700-27-X - The Book of Disquietude, tr. Richard Zenith, Carcanet Press, 1991. ISBN 0-14-118304-7 - The Book of Disquiet, tr. Iain Watson, Quartet Books, 1991. ISBN 0-7043-0153-9 - The Book of Disquiet, tr. Alfred Mac Adam, New York NY: Pantheon Books, 1991. ISBN 0-679-40234-9 - The Book of Disquiet, tr. Margaret Jull Costa, London, New York NY: Serpent's Tail, 1991, ISBN 1-85242-204-1 - Fernando Pessoa: Self-Analysis and Thirty Other Poems, tr. George Monteiro, Gavea-Brown Publications, 1989. ISBN 0-943722-14-4 - Always Astonished, tr. Edwin Honig, San Francisco CA: City Lights Books, 1988. ISBN 978-0-87286-228-9 - Always Astonished: selected prose, Edwin Honig, transl, San Francisco, USA: City Lights Books, 1988, ISBN 978-0-87286-228-9 - Selected Poems, tr. Edwin Honig, Swallow Press, 1971. ISBN B000XU4FE4 - English Poems, 2 vol. (vol. 1 part I – Antinous, part II – Inscriptions; vol. 2 part III – Epithalamium), Lisbon: Olisipo, 1921 (vol. 1, 20 pp.; vol. 2, 16 pp., 24 cm). Portugal: PURL. - 35 Sonnets, Lisbon: Monteiro & Co., 1918 (20 pp., 20 cm). Portugal: PURL. - Antinous: a poem, Lisbon: Monteiro & Co., 1918 (16 p., 20 cm). Portugal: PURL. - The anarchist banker and other Portuguese stories. Carcanet Press, 1996. ISBN 978-1-8575420-6-6 - Philosophical Essays: A Critical Edition. Edited with notes and introduction by Nuno Ribeiro. New York: Contra Mundum Press, 2012. ISBN 978-0-9836972-6-8 - The Transformation Book — or Book of Tasks. Edited with notes and introduction by Nuno Ribeiro and Cláudia Souza. New York: Contra Mundum Press, 2014. See also    - Portugal portal - Europe portal - Literature portal - Poetry portal - Biography portal   - Geração de Orpheu - Heteronym - Álvaro de Campos - The Book of Disquiet - The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis - Portuguese poetry - Dreams of Speaking References    1. ^ Letter to British Journal of Astrology, W. Foulsham & Co., 61, Fleet Street, London, E.C., 8 February 1918. In Pessoa, Fernando (1999). Correspondência 1905–1922, ed. Manuela Parreira da Silva. Lisboa: Assírio & Alvim, p. 258, ISBN 978-85-7164-916-3.  2. ^ a b Zenith, Richard (2008), Fotobiografias Século XX: Fernando Pessoa, Lisboa: Círculo de Leitores.  3. ^ The Natal Mercury  4. ^ Monteiro, Maria da Encarnação (1961), Incidências Inglesas na Poesia de Fernando Pessoa, Coimbra: author ed.  5. ^ Jennings, H. D. (1984), Os Dois Exilios, Porto: Centro de Estudos Pessoanos  6. ^ Clifford E. Geerdts, letter to Dr. Faustino Antunes, 10 April 1907. In Pessoa, Fernando (2003). Escritos Autobiográficos, Automáticos e de Reflexão Pessoal, ed. Richard Zenith. Lisboa: Assírio & Alvim, pp. 394–398.  7. ^ Orpheu nr.1  8. ^ Orpheu (2), Project Gutenberg.  9. ^ Ibe name "ibis" has a very long literary tradition: the elegiac poem Ibis by Ovid was inspired in the lost poem of the same title by Callimachus.  10. ^ Zenith, Richard (2008), Fernando Pessoa, Fotobiografias do Século XX (in Portuguese), Lisboa: Círculo de Leitores, p. 78.  11. ^ Ferro, António, ed. (Jan–Mar 1915), Orpheu (in Portuguese) (1–2), Lisboa: Orpheu, Lda..  12. ^ Saraiva, Arnaldo (ed.), Orpheu (in Portuguese) (3), Lisboa: Edições Ática.  13. ^ Ruy Vaz, Fernando Pessoa, ed. (Oct 1924 – Feb 1925), Athena (in Portuguese) (1–5), Lisboa: Imprensa Libanio da Silva.  14. ^ Zenith, Richard (2008), Fotobiografias do Século XX: Fernando Pessoa. Lisboa: Círculo de Leitores, pp. 194–195.  15. ^ Guerreiro, Ricardina (2004), De Luto por Existir: a melancolia de Bernardo Soares à luz de Walter Benjamin. Lisboa: Assírio & Alvim, p. 159.  16. ^ Sousa, João Rui de (2010), Fernando Pessoa Empregado de Escritório, 2nd ed. Lisboa: Assírio & Alvim.  17. ^ Pessoa, Fernando (2002), The Book of Disquiet, London: Penguin Books, ISBN 978-0-14-118304-6.  18. ^ Teatro Nacional de São Carlos, Lisbon's Opera House.  19. ^ Dias, Marina Tavares (2002), Lisboa nos Passos de Pessoa: uma cidade revisitada através da vida e da obra do poeta [Lisbon in Pessoa's footsteps: a Lisbon tour through the life and poetry of Fernando Pessoa], Lisboa: Quimera.  20. ^ Pessoa, Fernando (2006) , Lisboa: o que o turista deve ver (in Portuguese and English) (3rd ed.), Lisboa: Livros Horizonte  21. ^ Pessoa, Fernando (2008), Lisbon: what the tourist should see, Exeter, UK: Shearsman Books, archived from the original on 2 April 2011, retrieved 28 July 2010.  22. ^ Botto, António (2010), The Songs of António Botto translated by Fernando Pessoa. Edited and with an introduction By Josiah Blackmore. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, ISBN 978-0-8166-7101-4,  23. ^ Published in a serial in the Portuguese Journal Ilustração, from 1 January 1926, without a reference to the translator, as usual.  24. ^ Athena nr. 3, December 1924, pp. 89–102 and nr. 5, February 1925, pp. 173–184.  25. ^ A Biblioteca Internacional de Obras Célebres, volumes VI pp. 2807-2809, VII pp. 3534-3535, XX pp. 10215‑10218.  26. ^ Fernando Pessoa, Obra Poética, Rio de Janeiro: José Aguilar Editora, 1965).  27. ^ Athena nr. 1, October 1924, pp. 27–29 and nr. 4, January 1925, pp 161–164.  28. ^ Pessoa, Fernando (1967), Páginas de Estética e de Teoria e Crítica Literárias, Lisbon: Ática.  29. ^ A Voz do Silêncio (The Voice of Silence) at the Portuguese National Library. Besant, Annie (1915), Os Ideaes da Theosophia, Lisboa: Livraria Clássica Editora. Leadbeater, C. W. (1915), Compêndio de Theosophia, Lisboa: Livraria Clássica Editora. Leadbeater, C. W. (1916), Auxiliares Invisíveis, Lisboa: Livraria Clássica Editora. Leadbeater, C. W. (1916), A Clarividência, Lisboa: Livraria Clássica Editora. Blavatsky, Helena (1916), A Voz do Silêncio, Lisboa: Livraria Clássica Editora. Collins, Mabel (1916), Luz Sobre o Caminho e o Karma, Lisboa: Livraria Clássica Editora.  30. ^ Ana Luísa Pinheiro Nogueira, his mother's sister was also his godmother, a widow with two children, Maria and Mário. She traveled to Switzerland in November 1914, with her daughter and son-in-law, recently married.  31. ^ Pessoa, Fernando (1999), Correspondência 1905–1922, Lisbon: Assírio & Alvim, ISBN 978-85-7164-916-3.  32. ^ Cardoso, Paulo (2011), Fernando Pessoa, cartas astrológicas, Lisbon: Bertrand editora, ISBN 978-972-25-2261-8.  33. ^ Pessoa, Fernando (1917). "Pessoa é solicitado para escrever um volume teórico de introdução ao Neopaganismo Português" (in Portuguese). MultiPessoa. Retrieved 13 February 2018. Eu sou um pagão decadente, do tempo do outono da Beleza; do sonolecer [?] da limpidez antiga, místico intelectual da raça triste dos neoplatónicos da Alexandria. Como eles creio, e absolutamente creio, nos Deuses, na sua agência e na sua existência real e materialmente superior. Como eles creio nos semi-deuses, os homens que o esforço e a (...) ergueram ao sólio dos imortais; porque, como disse Píndaro, «a raça dos deuses e dos homens é uma só». Como eles creio que acima de tudo, pessoa impassível, causa imóvel e convicta [?], paira o Destino, superior ao bem e ao mal, estranho à Beleza e à Fealdade, além da Verdade e da Mentira. Mas não creio que entre o Destino e os Deuses haja só o oceano turvo [...] o céu mudo da Noite eterna. Creio, como os neoplatónicos, no Intermediário Intelectual, Logos na linguagem dos filósofos, Cristo (depois) na mitologia cristã.  34. ^ The magical world of Fernando Pessoa, Nthposition.  35. ^ Presença nr. 33 (July–October 1931).  36. ^ PASI, Marco (2002), "The Influence of Aleister Crowley on Fernando Pessoa's Esoteric Writings", The Magical Link, 9 (5): 4–11.  37. ^ Fernando Pessoa, letter to Rider & C., Paternoster Row, London, E.C.4., 20 October 1933. In Pessoa, Fernando. Correspondência 1923–1935, ed. Manuela Parreira da Silva. Lisboa: Assírio & Alvim, 1999, pp. 311–312.  38. ^ Martin Lüdke, "Ein moderner Hüter der Dinge; Die Entdeckung des großen Portugiesen geht weiter: Fernando Pessoa hat in der Poesie Alberto Caeiros seinen Meister gesehen", ("A modern guardian of things; The discovery of the great Portuguese continues: Fernando Pessoa saw its master in the poetry of Alberto Caeiro"), Frankfurter Rundschau, 18 August 2004. "Caeiro unterläuft die Unterscheidung zwischen dem Schein und dem, was etwa "Denkerge-danken" hinter ihm ausmachen wollen. Die Dinge, wie er sie sieht, sind als was sie scheinen. Sein Pan-Deismus basiert auf einer Ding-Metaphysik, die in der modernen Dichtung des zwanzigsten Jahrhunderts noch Schule machen sollte." Translation: "Caeiro interposes the distinction between the light and what "philosopher thoughts" want to constitute behind him. The things, as he sees them, are as they seem. His pandeism is based on a metaphysical thing, which should still become a school of thought under the modern seal of the twentieth century."  39. ^ Zenith, Richard (2008), Fotobiografias do Século XX: Fernando Pessoa, Lisboa: Círculo de Leitores, pp. 40–41.  40. ^ Terlinden, Anne (1990), Fernando Pessoa, the bilingual Portuguese poet: A Critical Study of "The Mad Fidler", Bruxelles: Facultés Universitaires Saint-Louis, ISBN 978-2-8028-0075-0.  41. ^ Antinous, at the Portuguese National Libraryf.  42. ^ 35 Sonnets at the Portuguese National Library.  43. ^ The Times Literary Supplement, 19 September 1918. Athenaeum, January 1919.  44. ^ Pessoa translated into English the poetry book Songs by António Botto (The Songs of António Botto, translated by Fernando Pessoa) and left unfinished the translation of The invention of the clear day by Almada Negreiros  45. ^ Contemporanea, May–July 1922, pp. 121–126.  46. ^ Barreto, Jose (2008). "Salazar and the New State in the Writings of Fernando Pessoa". Portuguese Studies. 24 (2): 169.  47. ^ Barreto, Jose (2008). "Salazar and the New State in the Writings of Fernando Pessoa". Portuguese Studies. 24 (2): 169.  48. ^ Serrão (int. and org.), Joel (1980), Fernando Pessoa, Ultimatum e Páginas de Sociologia Política, Lisboa: Ática.  49. ^ Barreto, Jose (2008). "Salazar and the New State in the Writings of Fernando Pessoa". Portuguese Studies. 24 (2): 170-172.  50. ^ Sadlier, Darlene J. (Winter 1997). "Nationalism, Modernity, and the Formation of Fernando Pessoa's Aesthetic". Luso-Brazilian Review. 34 (2): 110.  51. ^ Barreto, Jose (2008). "Salazar and the New State in the Writings of Fernando Pessoa". Portuguese Studies. 24 (2): 170-173.  52. ^ Darlene Joy Sadlier An introduction to Fernando Pessoa: modernism and the paradoxes of authorship, University Press of Florida, 1998, pp. 44–7.  53. ^ Maconaria.net  54. ^ Barreto, José (2009). "Fernando Pessoa e a invasão da Abissínia pela Itália fascista". Análise Social. XLIV (193): 693–718.  55. ^ a b Fernando Pessoa & His Heteronyms, by Carmela Ciuraru  56. ^ "Fernando Pessoa, Poet, Publisher, and Translator", British Library Journal, R. W. Howes, 1983, p. 162  57. ^ Will the real Pessoa step forward?, The Independent, Kevin Jackson, 30 May 1995  58. ^ "Fernando Pessoa and Co.: Selected Poems", Richard Zenith, 2007, ISBN 978-0-80219851-8, p. 163  59. ^ Ferreira, Francisco Manuel da Fonseca, O Hábito de Beber no Contexto Existencial e Poético de Femando Pessoa. Oporto: Laboratorios Bial, 1995.  60. ^ Cruz, Ireneu (1997). "A propósito da morte de Fernando Pessoa. O diagnóstico diferencial da cólica hepática" [The death of Fernando Pessoa. The differential diagnosis of liver colic.]. Acta Med Port. (in Portuguese). 10 (2-3 (Feb/Mar)): 221–224. PMID 9235856.  61. ^ Caption to photo 32, opposite page 115, in: Lisboa, E. and Taylor, L. C., eds; with an introduction by Paz, O. (1995), A Centenary Pessoa, Manchester: Carcanet Press Limited.  62. ^ Mosteiro dos Jerónimos Fernando Pessoa  63. ^ The Book of Disquiet, tr. Richard Zenith, Penguin classics, 2003.  64. ^ Letter to Adolfo Casais Monteiro, 13 January 1935.  65. ^ Fernando Pessoa, letter to Adolfo Casais Monteiro, 13 January 1935, transl. by Richard Zenith, in Pessoa, Fernando (2003), The Book of Disquiet, tr. Richard Zenith. London: Penguin classics, p. 474.  66. ^ Paz, Octavio (1983), "El Desconocido de Si Mismo: Fernando Pessoa", in Los Signos en Rotacion y Otros Ensayos, Madrid: Alianza Editorial.  67. ^ Pessoa, Fernando, Notas Para Recordação do Meu Mestre Caeiro in Presença nr. 30, Jan.-Feb. 1930, Coimbra.  68. ^ Sheets, Jane M., Fernando Pessoa as Anti-Poet: Alberto Caeiro, in Bulletin of Hispanic Studies, Vol. XLVI, Nr. 1, January 1969, pp. 39–47.  69. ^ This letter, to the director of the journal Portugal, was written on 31 October 1924, to announce Pessoa's art journal Athena.  70. ^ Pessoa, Fernando (1999), Correspondência 1923–1935, ed. Manuela Parreira da Silva. Lisboa: Assírio & Alvim, p.53, ISBN 972-37-0531-1.  71. ^ Jones, Marilyn Scarantino (1 January 1977). "Pessoa's Poetic Coterie: Three Heteronyms and an Orthonym". Luso-Brazilian Review. 14 (2): 254–262. JSTOR 3513064.  72. ^ Pessoa, Fernando (2016). Freitas, Eduardo, ed. A Mensagem: Editado por Eduardo Filipe Freitas. amazon.com (in Portuguese). CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform. ISBN 978-1-535-19909-4.  73. ^ Message, Tr. by Jonathan Griffin, Exeter: Shearsman Books, 2007.  74. ^ Mensagem 1st. edition, 1934, at the Portuguese National Library.  75. ^ Martins, Fernando Cabral (coord.) (2008). Dicionário de Fernando Pessoa e do Modernismo Português. Alfragide: Editorial Caminho.  76. ^ The Portuguese Republic was founded by the revolution of 5 October 1910, giving freedom of association and publishing.  77. ^ Pessoa, Fernando (1993). Textos de Crítica e de Intervenção. Lisboa: Edições Ática.  Further reading Books   - Gray de Castro, Mariana (ed.). Fernando Pessoa's modernity without frontiers: influences, dialogues, responses. Woodbridge, Suffolk, UK. Rochester, NY; USA: Oxford: Tamesis, 2013, ISBN 9781855662568. - Jackson, Kenneth David. Adverse Genres in Fernando Pessoa. New York; Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2010. - Klobucka, Anna and Mark Sabine, (eds.). Embodying Pessoa: Corporeality, Gender, Sexuality. Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 2007. - Santos, Maria Irene Ramalho Sousa. Atlantic Poets: Fernando Pessoa's Turn in Anglo-American Modernism. Hanover, NH: University Press of New England, 2003. - Pessoa's Alberto Caeiro. Dartmouth, Mass.: University of Massachusetts Dartmouth, 2000. - Monteiro, George. Fernando Pessoa and Nineteenth-century Anglo-American Literature. Lexington, KY: University Press of Kentucky, 2000. - Monteiro, George. The Presence of Pessoa: English, American, and Southern African Literary Responses. Lexington, KY: University Press of Kentucky, 1998. - Sadlier, Darlene J. An Introduction to Fernando Pessoa, Literary Modernist. Gainesville, FL: University Press of Florida, 1998. - Lancastre, Maria José de and Antonio Tabucchi. Fernando Pessoa: Photographic Documentation and Caption.Paris : Hazan, 1997. - Kotowicz, Zbigniew. Fernando Pessoa: Voices of a Nomadic Soul. London: Menard, 1996. - Lisboa, Eugénio and L. C. Taylor. A Centenary Pessoa. Manchester, England: Carcanet, 1995. - Terlinden-Villepin, Anne. Fernando Pessoa: The Bilingual Portuguese Poet. Brussels: Facultés universitaires Saint-Louis, 1990. - McGuirk, Bernard. Three Persons on One: A Centenary Tribute to Fernando Pessoa. Nottingham, England: University of Nottingham, 1988. - Green, J. C. R. Fernando Pessoa: The Genesis of the Heteronyms. Isle of Skye: Aquila, 1982. - Monteiro, George. The Man Who Never Was: Essays on Fernando Pessoa. Providence, RI: Gávea-Brown, 1982. Articles   - Anderson, R. N., "The Static Drama of Pessoa, Fernando" Hispanofila (104): 89–97 (January 1992). - Bloom, Harold, "Fernando Pessoa" in Genius: A Mosaic of One Hundred Exemplary Creative Minds. New York: Warner Books, 2002. - Brown, S.M., "The Whitman Pessoa Connection" Walt Whitman Quarterly Review 9 (1): 1–14 SUM 1991. - Bunyan, D, "The South-African Pessoa: Fernando 20th Century Portuguese Poet", English in Africa 14 (1), May 1987, pp. 67–105. - Cruz, Anne J., "Masked Rhetoric: Contextuality in Fernando Pessoa's Poems", Romance Notes, vol. XXIX, no. 1 (Fall, 1988), pp. 55–60. - De Castro, Mariana, "Oscar Wilde, Fernando Pessoa, and the art of lying". Portuguese Studies 22 (2): 219, 2006. - Dyer, Geoff, "Heteronyms" The New Statesman, vol. 4 (6 December 1991), p. 46. - Eberstadt, Fernanda, "Proud of His Obscurity", The New York Times Book Review, vol. 96, (1 September 1991), p. 26. - Ferari, Patricio. "Proverbs in Fernando Pessoa's works." Proverbium vol. 31, pp. 235–244. - Guyer, Leland, "Fernando Pessoa and the Cubist Perspective", Hispania, vol. 70, no. 1 (March 1987), pp. 73–78. - Haberly, David T., "Fernando Pessoa: Overview" in Lesley Henderson (Ed.), Reference Guide to World Literature, 2nd ed. St. James Press, 1995. - Hicks, J., "The Fascist imaginary in Pessoa and Pirandello" Centennial Review 42 (2): 309–332 SPR 1998. - Hollander, John, "Quadrophenia" The New Republic, 7 September 1987, pp. 33–6. - Howes, R. W., "Pessoa, Fernando, Poet, Publisher, and Translator", British Library Journal 9 (2): 161–170 1983. - Jennings, Hubert D., "In Search of Fernando Pessoa" Contrast 47 – South African Quarterly, vol. 12 no. 3 (June 1979). - Lopes J. M., "Cubism and intersectionism in Fernando Pessoa's 'Chuva Obliqua" Texte (15–16),1994, pp.  63–95. - Mahr, G., "Pessoa, life narrative, and the dissociative process" in Biography 21 (1) Winter 1998, pp. 25–35. - McNeill, Pods, "The aesthetic of fragmentation and the use of personae in the poetry of Fernando Pessoa and W.B. Yeats" Portuguese Studies 19: 110–121 2003. - Monteiro, George, "The Song of the Reaper-Pessoa and Wordsworth" Portuguese Studies 5, 1989, pp. 71–80. - Muldoon P., "In the hall of mirrors: 'Autopsychography' by Fernando Pessoa" New England Review 23 (4), Fal 2002, pp. 38–52. - Pasi, Marco, "September 1930, Lisbon: Aleister Crowley’s lost diary of his Portuguese trip" Pessoa Plural, no. 1 (Spring 2012), pp. 253–283. - Pasi, Marco & Ferrari, Patricio, "Fernando Pessoa and Aleister Crowley: New discoveries and a new analysis of the documents in the Gerald Yorke Collection" Pessoa Plural, no. 1 (Spring 2012), pp. 284–313. - Phillips, A., "Pessoa's Appearances" in Promises, Promises. London: Faber and Faber Limited, 2000, pp. 113–124. - Ribeiro, A. S., "A tradition of empire: Fernando Pessoa and Germany" Portuguese Studies 21: 201–209, 2005 - Riccardi, Mattia, "Dionysus or Apollo? The heteronym Antonio Mora as moment of Nietzsche's reception by Pessoa" Portuguese Studies 23 (1), 109, 2007. - Rosenthal, David H., "Unpredictable Passions", The New York Times Book Review, 13 December 1987, p. 32. - Seabra, J.A., "Pessoa, Fernando Portuguese Modernist Poet", Europe 62 (660): 41–53 1984. - Severino, Alexandrino E., "Fernando Pessoa's Legacy: The Presença and After", World Literature Today, vol. 53, no. 1 (Winter, 1979), pp. 5–9. - Severino, Alexandrino E., "Pessoa, Fernando – A Modern Lusiad", Hispania 67 (1): 52–60 1984. - Severino, Alexandrino E., "Was Pessoa Ever in South Africa?" Hispania, vol. 74, no. 3 (September 1991). - Sheets, Jane M., "Fernando Pessoa as Anti-Poet: Alberto Caeiro", Bulletin of Hispanic Studies, vol. XLVI, no. 1 (January 1969), pp. 39–47. - Sousa, Ronald W., "The Structure of Pessoa's Mensagem", Bulletin of Hispanic Studies, vol. LIX, no. 1, January 1982, pp. 58–66. - Steiner, George, "A man of many parts", The Observer, 3 June 2001. - Suarez, Jose, "Fernando Pessoa's acknowledged involvement with the occult" Hispania 90 (2): (May 2007), 245–252. - Wood, Michael, "Mod and Great" The New York Review of Books, vol. XIX, no. 4 (21 September 1972), pp. 19–22. - Zenith, Richard, "Pessoa, Fernando and the Theater of his Self" Performing Arts Journal (44), May 1993, pp. 47–49. External links This article's use of external links may not follow Wikipedia's policies or guidelines. Please improve this article by removing excessive or inappropriate external links, and converting useful links where appropriate into footnote references. (July 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)  Fernando Pessoaat Wikipedia's sister projects    - Media from Wikimedia Commons  - Quotations from Wikiquote  - Texts from Wikisource  - Data from Wikidata     - Pessoa's Museum in Lisbon Fernando Pessoa House - Pessoa's private library free downloads from the digital library at Pessoa's Museum - Message the only Portuguese book by Fernando Pessoa published during his lifetime - Works by Fernando Pessoa at Project Gutenberg - Works by or about Fernando Pessoa at Internet Archive - Works by Fernando Pessoa at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks)  - Pessoa Plural: Revista de Estudos Pessoanos – A Journal of Fernando Pessoa Studies - Project Estranhar Pessoa - Pessoa's Biography at Shearsman Books - Antinous free download from the Portuguese Digital Library - 35 Sonnets free download from the Portuguese Digital Library - English Poems free download from the Portuguese Digital Library - Mensagem free download from the Portuguese Digital Library - "Portugal Holds on to Words Few Can Grasp" by Michael Kimmelman, The New York Times, 15 July 2008 - Poets.org Biography - Pessoa's trunk 13+ ways of looking at a poem - Arquivo Pessoa - Pessoa by Eveleigh The many faces of Fernando Pessoa by Aldous Eveleigh - Fernando Pessoa Tour Audio documentary series about the life and legacy of Fernando Pessoa by Sofia Saldanha
Peter Ackroyd, CBE, FRSL (born 5 October 1949) is an English biographer, novelist and critic with a particular interest in the history and culture of London. For his novels about English history and culture and his biographies of, among others, William Blake, Charles Dickens, T. S. Eliot, Charles Chaplin and Sir Thomas More, he won the Somerset Maugham Award and two Whitbread Awards. He is noted for the volume of work he has produced, the range of styles therein, his skill at assuming different voices, and the depth of his research.   He was elected a fellow of the Royal Society of Literature in 1984 and appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 2003.
Peter Norvig (born December 14, 1956) is an American computer scientist. He is a director of research at Google Inc., and used to be its director of search quality.
Philip K. Dick   As of December 2012, thirteen of Philip K. Dick's early works in the public domain in the United States are available in ebook form from Project Gutenberg. As of April 4, 2012, Wikisource has one of Philip K. Dick's early works in the public domain in the United States available in ebook form which is not from Project Gutenberg.  Influence and legacy   Lawrence Sutin's 1989 biography of Dick, Divine Invasions: A Life of Philip K. Dick, is considered the standard biographical treatment of Dick's life.    In 1993, French writer Emmanuel Carrère published Je suis vivant et vous êtes morts which was first translated and published in English in 2004 as I Am Alive and You Are Dead: A Journey Into the Mind of Philip K. Dick, which the author describes in his preface in this way:  The book you hold in your hands is a very peculiar book. I have tried to depict the life of Philip K. Dick from the inside, in other words, with the same freedom and empathy – indeed with the same truth – with which he depicted his own characters.   Critics of the book have complained about the lack of fact checking, sourcing, notes and index, "the usual evidence of deep research that gives a biography the solid stamp of authority." It can be considered a non-fiction novel about his life.   Dick has influenced many writers, including Jonathan Lethem and Ursula K. Le Guin. The prominent literary critic Fredric Jameson proclaimed Dick the "Shakespeare of Science Fiction", and praised his work as "one of the most powerful expressions of the society of spectacle and pseudo-event". The author Roberto Bolaño also praised Dick, describing him as "Thoreau plus the death of the American dream". Dick has also influenced filmmakers, his work being compared to films such as the Wachowskis' The Matrix, David Cronenberg's Videodrome, eXistenZ, and Spider, Spike Jonze's Being John Malkovich, Adaptation, Michel Gondry's Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, Alex Proyas's Dark City, Peter Weir's The Truman Show, Andrew Niccol's Gattaca, In Time, Terry Gilliam's 12 Monkeys, Alejandro Amenábar's Open Your Eyes, David Fincher's Fight Club, Cameron Crowe's Vanilla Sky, Darren Aronofsky's Pi, Richard Kelly's Donnie Darko and Southland Tales, Rian Johnson's Looper, Duncan Jones' Source Code, and Christopher Nolan's Memento and Inception.   The Philip K. Dick Society was an organization dedicated to promoting the literary works of Dick and was led by Dick's longtime friend and music journalist Paul Williams. Williams also served as Dick's literary executor for several years after Dick's death and wrote one of the first biographies of Dick, entitled Only Apparently Real: The World of Philip K. Dick.   The Philip K. Dick estate owns and operates the production company Electric Shepherd Productions, which has produced the films Adjustment Bureau (2011) and the upcoming Walt Disney Company film King of the Elves, the TV series The Man in the High Castle and also a Marvel Comics 5-issue adaptation of Electric Ant.   Dick was recreated by his fans in the form of a simulacrum or remote-controlled android designed in his likeness. Such simulacra had been themes of many of Dick's works. The Philip K. Dick simulacrum was included on a discussion panel in a San Diego Comic Con presentation about the film adaptation of the novel, A Scanner Darkly. In February 2006, an America West Airlines employee misplaced the android's head, and it has not yet been found. In January 2011, it was announced that Hanson Robotics had built a replacement.  Film   - BBC2 released in 1994 a biographical documentary as part of its Arena arts series called Philip K. Dick: A Day in the Afterlife. - The Gospel According to Philip K. Dick was a documentary film produced in 2001. - The Penultimate Truth About Philip K. Dick was another biographical documentary film produced in 2007. - The 1987 film The Trouble with Dick, in which Tom Villard plays a character named "Dick Kendred" (cf. Philip Kindred Dick), who is a science fiction author - The dialogue of Nikos Nikolaidis' 1987 film Morning Patrol contains excerpts taken from published works authored by Philip K. Dick. - The Spanish feature film Próxima (2007) by Carlos Atanes, where the character Felix Cadecq is based on Dick[citation needed] - A 2008 film titled Your Name Here, by Matthew Wilder, features Bill Pullman as science fiction author William J. Frick, a character based on Dick - The 2010 science fiction film 15 Till Midnight cites Dick's influence with an "acknowledgment to the works of" credit. - The Prophets of Science Fiction episode, Philip K Dick. 2011 Documentary - In 2013, a Kickstarter campaign was set up for a short film called The Crystal Crypt, based on Dick's short story of the same name. In fiction   - Michael Bishop's The Secret Ascension (1987; currently published as Philip K. Dick Is Dead, Alas), which is set in an alternative universe where his non-genre work is published but his science fiction is banned by a totalitarian United States in thrall to a demonically possessed Richard Nixon. - The Faction Paradox novel Of the City of the Saved ... (2004) by Philip Purser-Hallard - The short story "The Transmigration of Philip K" (1984) by Michael Swanwick (to be found in the 1991 collection Gravity's Angels) - In Ursula K. Le Guin's 1971 novel The Lathe of Heaven, whose characters alter reality through their dreams. Two made-for-TV films based on the novel have been made: The Lathe of Heaven (1980) and Lathe of Heaven (2002) - In Thomas M. Disch's The Word of God (2008) - The comics magazine Weirdo published "The Religious Experience of Philip K. Dick" by artist R. Crumb in 1986. Though this is not an adaptation of a specific book or story by Dick, it incorporates elements of Dick's experience which he related in short stories, novels, essays, and the Exegesis. The story parodies the form of a Chick tract, a type of evangelical comic, many of which relate the story of an epiphany leading to a conversion to fundamentalist Christianity. - In the Batman Beyond episode "Sentries of the Last Cosmos", the character Eldon Michaels claims a typewriter on his desk to have belonged to Philip K. Dick. - In the 1976 alternate history novel The Alteration by Kingsley Amis, one of the novels-within-a-novel depicted is The Man in the High Castle (mirroring The Grasshopper Lies Heavy in the real-life novel), still written by Philip K. Dick. Instead of the novel being set in 1962 in an alternate universe where the Axis Powers won the Second World War and named for Hawthorne Abendsen, the author of its novel-within-a-novel, it depicts an alternate universe where the Protestant Reformation occurred (events including the continuation of Henry VIII's Schismatic policies by his son, Henry IX, and the creation of an independent North America in 1848), with one character speculating that the titular character was a wizard. - In the Japanese science fiction anime Psycho-Pass, Dick's works are referred to as recommended reading material to help reflect on the current state of affairs of those characters world. - The 2016 video game Californium was developed as a tribute to Philip K. Dick and his writings to coincide with an Arte's documentary series. - The short film trilogy Code 7 written and directed by Nacho Vigalondo starts with the line "Philip K. Dick presents". The story also contains some other references to Philip K. Dick's body of work. Music   - "Flow My Tears" is the name of an instrumental by bassist Stuart Hamm, inspired by Dick's novel of the same name. The track is found on his album Radio Free Albemuth, also named after a Dick novel. - "Flow My Tears, The Policeman Said" and other seminal Ph. K. Dick novels inspired the electronic music concept album "The Dowland Shores of Philip K. Dick's Universe" by Levente - "Flow My Tears the Spider Said" is the final song on They Were Wrong, So We Drowned, the second album by experimental Los Angeles punk-rock outfit Liars. - "Listen to the Sirens", the first song on Tubeway Army's 1978 debut album has as its first line "flow my tears, the new police song". - American rapper and producer El-P is a noted fan of Dick and other science fiction, as many of Dick's themes, such as paranoia and questions about the nature of reality, feature in El-P's work. A song on the 2002 album Fantastic Damage is titled "T.O.J." and the chorus makes reference to the Dick work Time Out of Joint. - English singer Hugh Cornwell included an instrumental called "Philip K. Ridiculous" on his 2008 album "Hooverdam". - The World/Inferno Friendship Society's 2011 album The Anarchy and the Ecstasy includes a song entitled "Canonize Philip K. Dick, OK". - Bloc Party's 2012 album Four contains several references to Dick's work, including a song entitled "V.A.L.I.S.". - German singer Pohlmann included a song called "Roy Batty (In Tribute to Philip K. Dick)" on his 2013 album Nix ohne Grund. - Sister, a Sonic Youth album, "was in part inspired by the life and works of science fiction writer Philip K. Dick". - "What You See" is a song by Faded Paper Figures that pays homage to the literary work of Dick. - The first song on Japancakes' debut album If I Could See Dallas is titled 'Now Wait For Last Year'. - Janelle Monáe's song "Make the Bus" in her album The ArchAndroid has the lyrics "You've got 'Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?' under your pillow" at the end of the first stanza. - Blind Guardian's song "Time What is Time" from the 1992 album "Somewhere Far Beyond" is loosely based on the book "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?". Radio   - In June 2014, BBC Radio 4 broadcast The Two Georges by Stephen Keyworth, inspired by the FBI's investigation of Phil and his wife Kleo in 1955, and the subsequent friendship that developed between Phil and FBI Agent Scruggs. Theater   - The short play Kindred Blood in Kensington Gore (1992) by Brian W. Aldiss - A 2005 play, 800 Words: the Transmigration of Philip K. Dick by Victoria Stewart, which re-imagines Dick's final days. Contemporary philosophy   Postmodernists such as Jean Baudrillard, Fredric Jameson, Laurence Rickels and Slavoj Žižek have commented on Dick's writing's foreshadowing of postmodernity. Jean Baudrillard offers this interpretation:    It is hyperreal. It is a universe of simulation, which is something altogether different. And this is so not because Dick speaks specifically of simulacra. SF has always done so, but it has always played upon the double, on artificial replication or imaginary duplication, whereas here the double has disappeared. There is no more double; one is always already in the other world, an other world which is not another, without mirrors or projection or utopias as means for reflection. The simulation is impassable, unsurpassable, checkmated, without exteriority. We can no longer move "through the mirror" to the other side, as we could during the golden age of transcendence.    For his anti-government skepticism, Philip K. Dick was afforded minor mention in Mythmakers and Lawbreakers, a collection of interviews about fiction by anarchist authors. Noting his early authorship of The Last of the Masters, an anarchist-themed novelette, author Margaret Killjoy expressed that while Dick never fully sided with anarchism, his opposition to government centralization and organized religion has influenced anarchist interpretations of gnosticism.  Awards and honors   The Science Fiction Hall of Fame inducted Dick in 2005.   During his lifetime he received numerous annual literary awards and nominations for particular works.    - Hugo Awards Best Novel 1963 – winner: The Man in the High Castle 1975 – nominee: Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said Best Novelette 1968 – nominee: Faith of Our Fathers - Best Novel 1963 – winner: The Man in the High Castle 1975 – nominee: Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said - 1963 – winner: The Man in the High Castle - 1975 – nominee: Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said - Best Novelette 1968 – nominee: Faith of Our Fathers - 1968 – nominee: Faith of Our Fathers - Nebula Awards Best Novel 1965 – nominee: Dr. Bloodmoney 1965 – nominee: The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch 1968 – nominee: Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? 1974 – nominee: Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said 1982 – nominee: The Transmigration of Timothy Archer - Best Novel 1965 – nominee: Dr. Bloodmoney 1965 – nominee: The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch 1968 – nominee: Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? 1974 – nominee: Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said 1982 – nominee: The Transmigration of Timothy Archer - 1965 – nominee: Dr. Bloodmoney - 1965 – nominee: The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch - 1968 – nominee: Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? - 1974 – nominee: Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said - 1982 – nominee: The Transmigration of Timothy Archer - John W. Campbell Memorial Award Best Novel 1975 – winner: Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said - Best Novel 1975 – winner: Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said - 1975 – winner: Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said - British Science Fiction Association Award Best Novel 1978 – winner: A Scanner Darkly - Best Novel 1978 – winner: A Scanner Darkly - 1978 – winner: A Scanner Darkly - Graoully d'Or (Festival de Metz, France) 1979 – winner: A Scanner Darkly - 1979 – winner: A Scanner Darkly - Kurd-Laßwitz-Preis 1985 – winner VALIS - 1985 – winner VALIS Philip K. Dick Award Main article: Philip K. Dick Award   The Philip K. Dick Award is a science fiction award that annually recognizes the previous year's best SF paperback original published in the U.S. It is conferred at Norwescon, sponsored by the Philadelphia Science Fiction Society, and since 2005 supported by the Philip K. Dick Trust. Winning works are identified on their covers as Best Original SF Paperback. It is currently administered by David G. Hartwell and Gordon Van Gelder.   The award was inaugurated in 1983, the year after Dick's death. It was founded by Thomas Disch with assistance from David G. Hartwell, Paul S. Williams, and Charles N. Brown. Past administrators include Algis J. Budrys and David Alexander Smith.[citation needed]  See also    - Philip K. Dick portal   - Consensus reality - Cyberpunk - Paranoid fiction - Transcendental idealism   - Speculative fiction portal - Literature portal References For secondary bibliography, see Philip K. Dick bibliography § Book-length critical studies.    1. ^ Liukkonen, Petri. "Philip K. Dick". Books and Writers (kirjasto.sci.fi). Finland: Kuusankoski Public Library. Archived from the original on April 25, 2007.  2. ^ a b c "1963 Award Winners & Nominees". Worlds Without End. Retrieved June 26, 2009.  3. ^ a b c d "1975 Award Winners & Nominees". Worlds Without End. Retrieved June 26, 2009.  4. ^ Behrens, Richard; Allen B. Ruch (March 21, 2003). "Philip K. Dick". The Scriptorium. The Modern Word. Archived from the original on April 12, 2008. Retrieved April 14, 2008.  5. ^ Kimbell, Keith. "Ranked: Movies Based on Philip K. Dick Stories". Metacritic. Retrieved November 20, 2013.  6. ^ a b Grossman, Lev (October 16, 2005). "Ubik – ALL-TIME 100 Novels". Time. Retrieved April 14, 2008.  7. ^ Stoffman, Judy "A milestone in literary heritage" Toronto Star (February 10, 2007) Archived October 6, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.  8. ^ Library of America Philip K. Dick: Four Novels of the 1960s  9. ^ Library of America H.P. Lovecraft: Tales  10. ^ Associated Press "Library of America to issue volume of Philip K. Dick" USA Today (November 28, 2006)  11. ^ a b Kucukalic, Lejla (2008). Philip K. Dick: canonical writer of the digital age. Taylor and Francis. p. 27. ISBN 0-415-96242-0.  12. ^ Sutin, Lawrence (2003). "Philip K. Dick". Author – Official Biography. Philip K. Dick Trust. Archived from the original on April 10, 2008. Retrieved April 14, 2008.  13. ^ The Search for Philip K Dick by Anne R Dick, Tachyon Publications 2010  14. ^ Vitale, Joe. "Interview with Philip K. Dick". Philip K. Dick – Official Site. Archived from the original on April 8, 2012. Retrieved May 6, 2012.  15. ^ a b Sutin p.3  16. ^ a b Dick, Philip K. "An Interview With America's Most Brilliant Science-Fiction Writer" Interview by Joe Vitale. Interview With Philip K Dick. Print Interviews. Web. October 22, 2011.  17. ^ Sutin, p. 53  18. ^ a b Philip K. Dick at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database (ISFDB). Retrieved April 23, 2013. Select a title to see its linked publication history and general information. Select a particular edition (title) for more data at that level, such as a front cover image or linked contents.  19. ^ a b O'HARA, HELEN. "Philip K. Dick: The Man And His Movies". Empire.  20. ^ Butler, Andrew M. (May 24, 2012). The Pocket Essential Philip K. Dick. Oldcastle Books. Retrieved June 26, 2015.  21. ^ a b c d Cameron, R. Graeme (June 20, 2014). "Mad Flight of a Manic Phoenix, or: Philip K. Dick in Vancouver (1972)". Amazing Stories. Retrieved June 26, 2015.  22. ^ Purser-Hallard, Philip (August 11, 2006). "The drugs did work" – via The Guardian.  23. ^ Admin, System (March 30, 2012). "Philip K Dick and the Vesica Piscis « From Around The Web « Mindscape magazine". Mindscapemagazine.com. Retrieved November 12, 2013.  24. ^ "Prophets of Science Fiction: Philip K. Dick". The Science Channel. Aired Wednesday, November 17, 2011.  25. ^ a b Platt, Charles (1980). Dream Makers: The Uncommon People Who Write Science Fiction. Berkley Publishing. ISBN 0-425-04668-0.  26. ^ Dick, Philip K. 'The Selected Letters of Philip K. Dick: 1974', Underwood-Miller, 1991, p. 235  27. ^ "Philip K. Dick: Stanisław Lem is a Communist Committee", Matt Davies, April 29, 2015  28. ^ a b "The Religious Affiliation of Science Fiction Writer Philip K. Dick". Famous Science Fiction Writers / Famous Episcopalians. Adherents.com. July 25, 2005. Retrieved April 14, 2008.  29. ^ Sutin, pp. 83–84  30. ^ Arnold, Kyle (2016-05-02). The Divine Madness of Philip K. Dick. Oxford University Press. pp. 53–56. ISBN 0190498315. Retrieved 2018-06-16.  31. ^ "Writers and Editors War Tax Protest". New York Post. January 30, 1968.  32. ^ a b c d Carrère, Emmanuel (2004). I Am Alive and You Are Dead: A Journey Into the Mind of Philp K. Dick. New York: Metropolitan Books. ISBN 0-8050-5464-2.  33. ^ Sutin, pg.289  34. ^ "Find A Grave: Philip K. Dick".  35. ^ The Collected Stories Of Philip K. Dick, Volume 1, The Short Happy Life of the Brown Oxford, (1990), Citadel Twilight, p. xvi, ISBN 0-8065-1153-2  36. ^ a b "Criticism and analysis". Gale Research. 1996. Archived from the original on March 7, 2007. Retrieved April 20, 2007.  37. ^ A Conversation With Philip K. Dick Archived May 11, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.  38. ^ Dick, Philip K. (1985). I Hope I Shall Arrive Soon. Doubleday. p. 2. ISBN 0-385-19567-2.  39. ^ a b Sutin, npg  40. ^ a b Williams, Paul (November 6, 1975). "The Most Brilliant Sci-Fi Mind on Any Planet: Philip K. Dick" (PDF). Rolling Stone. Retrieved November 10, 2014.  41. ^ Link, Eric Carl (2010). Understanding Philip K. Dick. University of South Carolina Press. p. 48. ISBN 978-1-57003-855-6.  42. ^ Link, Eric Carl (2010). Understanding Philip K. Dick. University of South Carolina Press. pp. 48–101. ISBN 978-1-57003-855-6.  43. ^ Levack, Daniel (1981). PKD: A Philip K. Dick Bibliography, Underwood/Miller, pp. 116, 126 ISBN 0-934438-33-1  44. ^ ^ Sammon, Paul M. (1996). Future Noir: the Making of Blade Runner. London: Orion Media. p. 49. ISBN 0-06-105314-7.  45. ^ Dick, Philip K. (1997). Philip K. Dick Reader, The. New York, NY: Citadel Press. ISBN 0-8065-1856-1.  46. ^ Machover, Tod. "Valis CD". MIT Media Lab. Archived from the original on March 12, 2008. Retrieved April 14, 2008.  47. ^ Philip K. Dick, "Self Portrait", 1968, (The Shifting Realities of Philip K. Dick, 1995)  48. ^ AN INTERVIEW WITH PHILIP K. DICK Archived May 11, 2012, at the Wayback Machine. Daniel DePerez, September 10, 1976, Science Fiction Review, No. 19, Vol. 5, no. 3, August 1976  49. ^ Knight, Annie; John T Cullen; the staff of Deep Outside SFFH (November 2002). "About Philip K. Dick: An interview with Tessa, Chris, and Ranea Dick". Deep Outside SFFH. Far Sector SFFH. Retrieved April 14, 2008.  50. ^ "Philip K. Dick Films". Philip K. Dick Trust. August 11, 2009. Archived from the original on August 22, 2010. Retrieved September 3, 2010.  51. ^ Kermode, Mark (July 15, 2000). On the Edge of Bladerunner (TV documentary). UK: Channel 4.  52. ^ Dick, Philip K. "Letter to Jeff Walker regarding "Blade Runner"". Archived from the original on December 13, 2003. Retrieved May 31, 2016.  53. ^ Roberts, Randall. "calendarlive.com". calendarlive.com. Archived from the original on December 11, 2007. Retrieved November 12, 2013.  54. ^ "Ubik (2010) - Preview". Sci-Fi Movie Page. Retrieved November 12, 2013.  55. ^ Philip K. Dick's 'Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said' Being Adapted Alex Billington, FirstShowing.net, May 12, 2009  56. ^ Sweney, Mark (October 7, 2010). "Ridley Scott to return to work of sci-fi icon for BBC mini-series: Blade Runner director to executive produce four-part BBC1 adaptation of Philip K Dick's The Man in the High Castle". The Observer.  57. ^ "Amazon.com: The Man In The High Castle – Season 1: Alexa Davalos, Rupert Evans, Luke Kleintank, DJ Qualls, Joel De La Fuente, Cary Hiroyuki-Tagawa, Rufus Sewell, David Semel, Daniel Percival, Ken Olin, Michael Rymer, Bryan Spicer, Nelson Mccormick, Brad Anderson, Karyn Kusama, Michael Slovis, Frank Spotnitz, Thomas Schnauz, Evan Wright, Jace Richdale, Rob Williams, Emma Frost, Walon Green, Ridley Scott, David W. Zucker, Isa Dick Hackett, Christopher Tricarico, Stewart Mackinnon, Chrtistian Baute, Richard Heus, Dan Percival, Jordan Sheehan, Kalen Egan, Erin Smith, Philip K. Dick".  58. ^ Patten, Dominic (July 21, 2018). "'Man In The High Castle' Renewed For Season 4; Unveils Season 3 Premiere Date & Trailer – Comic-Con". Deadline. Retrieved July 22, 2018.  59. ^ Cynthia Littleton. "Amazon Grabs U.S. Rights to Bryan Cranston's 'Philip K. Dick's Electric Dreams' Anthology Series". Variety.  60. ^ Lodderhose, Diana (May 10, 2016). "Bryan Cranston to Star in Philip K. Dick Series From 'Outlander's' Ron Moore". variety.com. Retrieved May 11, 2016.  61. ^ "evidEnce room – past productions". Archived from the original on February 7, 2012.  62. ^ Foley, Kathleen (April 22, 1999). "'Flow My Tears' Has Hallucinatory Style". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved May 28, 2012.  63. ^ "Archived NTK email newsletter from 11 June 1999". Ntk.net. Retrieved November 12, 2013.  64. ^ Zinoman, Jason (December 3, 2010). "A Test for Humanity in a Post-Apocalyptic World". The New York Times.  65. ^ "The Defenders". Project Gutenberg.  66. ^ "Przedstawienie Trzy stygmaty Palmera Eldritcha". encyklopediateatru.pl. Retrieved October 10, 2016.  67. ^ "Trzy stygmaty Palmera Eldritcha – Stary Teatr". krakow.wyborcza.pl. Retrieved October 10, 2016.  68. ^ "Episode 1, Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?, Dangerous Visions - BBC Radio 4". BBC.  69. ^ "MARVEL BRINGS PHILIP K DICK'S ELECTRIC ANT TO LIFE IN NEW SERIES". philipkdick.com. July 24, 2008. Archived from the original on August 12, 2012.  70. ^ SDCC 08: PHILIP K. DICK COMES TO MARVEL www.ign.com  71. ^ Philip K. Dick Press Release – BOOM! ANNOUNCES DO ANDROIDS DREAM OF ELECTRIC SHEEP? Archived September 20, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.  72. ^ TOTAL RECALL #1 (OF 4) www.dynamite.com  73. ^ Total Recall #1 www.comicvine.com  74. ^ The Selected Letters of Philip K. Dick, 1975–1976. Novato, California : Underwood-Miller, 1993 (Trade edition) ISBN 0-88733-111-4 p. 240  75. ^ "Home Page of the National Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped (NLS)". Loc.gov. October 28, 2013. Retrieved November 12, 2013.  76. ^ O'Hagen, Sean (June 12, 2005). "What a clever Dick". The Observer. UK. Retrieved April 15, 2008.  77. ^ Taylor, Charles (June 20, 2004). "Just Imagine Philip K. Dick". The New York Times. Retrieved April 15, 2008.  78. ^ Berry, Michael (July 4, 2004). "The dead no longer lie in grave silence". San Francisco Chronicle. Retrieved April 15, 2008.  79. ^ Middlehurst, Charlotte. "Jonathan Lethem to Appear in Shanghai Time Out Shanghai (September 26, 2011)  80. ^ The SF Site Featured Review: The Lathe of Heaven, SF Site  81. ^ Fredric Jameson, Archaeologies of the Future: The Desire Called Utopia and Other Science Fictions, London and New York: Verso, 2005, p. 345; p. 347.  82. ^ Biography and Memoir Reviews. "Between Parentheses by Roberto Bolaño: review". Telegraph. Retrieved November 12, 2013.  83. ^ a b c d e "Scriptorium – Philip K. Dick". Themodernword.com. Archived from the original on April 12, 2008.  84. ^ a b c d e f g How Hollywood woke up to a dark genius, The Daily Telegraph Archived November 11, 2014, at the Wayback Machine.  85. ^ Sal Cinquemani (September 25, 2004). "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind". Slant Magazine.  86. ^ Peter Bradshaw. "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind". the Guardian.  87. ^ "SDCC TRAILER: Timberlake and Seyfried on the run in IN TIME". Archived from the original on April 5, 2012. Retrieved July 22, 2011.  88. ^ "Alejandro Amenábar Fernando Cantos". Retrieved January 9, 2011.  89. ^ Philip K. Dick's Future Is Now, Washington Post Archived June 4, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.  90. ^ Donnie Darko, Salon.com Archived July 3, 2009, at the Wayback Machine.  91. ^ Richard Kelly’s Revelations: Defending Southland Tales., Cinema Scope Archived September 10, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.  92. ^ Bryan Bishop (August 30, 2012). "Noir to near-future: 'Looper' director Rian Johnson talks sci-fi, Twitter, and the fate of film". The Verge. Vox Media.  93. ^ Frank Rose (December 1, 2003). "The Second Coming of Philip K. Dick". WIRED.  94. ^ Could Inception trigger a new wave of sci-fi cinema?, Den of Geek  95. ^ "Boom! to Collect 'Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?'". publishersweekly.com. July 7, 2015. Retrieved November 28, 2015.  96. ^ "Amazon's 'Man in the High Castle' TV series has made Philip K. Dick's original book a bestseller". businessinsider.com. November 20, 2015. Retrieved November 28, 2015.  97. ^ "Dee Rees To Adapt Philip K. Dick's 'Martian Time-Slip'". deadline.com. October 17, 2013. Retrieved November 28, 2015.  98. ^ "About The Philip K. Dick Android Project: A Note from Laura and Isa" (Press release). Philip K. Dick Trust. June 24, 2005. Archived from the original on August 12, 2012. Retrieved April 14, 2008.  99. ^ Nova ScienceNow, "Next Big Thing"  100. ^ "PKD Android".  101. ^ Waxman, Sharon (June 24, 2006). "A Strange Loss of Face, More Than Embarrassing". The New York Times. Retrieved April 14, 2008.  102. ^ Lamar, Cyriaque (January 12, 2011). "The Lost Robotic Head of Philip K Dick Has Been Rebuilt". io9. Retrieved January 12, 2011.  103. ^ timotheyido (April 9, 1994). ""Arena" Philip K Dick: A Day in the Afterlife (TV Episode 1994)". IMDb.  104. ^ The Gospel According to Philip K. Dick on IMDb  105. ^ The Penultimate Truth About Philip K. Dick on IMDb  106. ^ The Trouble With Dick on IMDb  107. ^ Koehler, Robert (July 7, 2008). "Review: 'Your Name Here'". Variety. Retrieved April 3, 2014.  108. ^ Fischer, Martha (August 8, 2006). "Another Dick Biopic!". Moviefone. Archived from the original on April 7, 2014. Retrieved April 3, 2014.  109. ^ Buchanan, Jason. "Your Name Here (2008)". AllMovie. Retrieved April 2, 2014.  110. ^ Kemp, Cal (June 17, 2008). "CineVegas X: Matthew Wilder Interview – 'Your Name Here'". Collider. Retrieved April 2, 2014.  111. ^ IMDB "Full credits"  112. ^ ""Prophets of Science Fiction" Philip K. Dick (TV Episode 2011)". IMDb. November 23, 2011.  113. ^ "The Crystal Crypt". Kickstarter.com. Retrieved November 12, 2013.  114. ^ Disch, Thomas M. The Word of God. San Francisco:Tachyon, 2008  115. ^ "What if? Alternative history's butterfly moments reach lift-off". TheGuardian.com. Retrieved 13 September 2017.  116. ^ Kraw, Cassandra (November 13, 2015). "Californium: A game about the many (sur)realities of Philip K. Dick". Ars Technica. Retrieved May 12, 2016.  117. ^ "Código 7". February 8, 2018 – via www.imdb.com.  118. ^ "Stuart Hamm "Radio Free Albemuth" – In Review – Guitar Nine".  119. ^ "The Dowland Shores of Philip K. Dick's Universe". CD and digital download album release.  120. ^ "Interviews". Pitchfork.  121. ^ "Hugh Cornwell – Interview". www.pennyblackmusic.co.uk.  122. ^ Foege, Alec (1994). Confusion Is Next: The Sonic Youth Story. St. Martin's Griffin. p. 163.  123. ^ "Blind Guardian Interview".  124. ^ "Stephen Keyworth - The Two Georges - BBC Radio 4 Extra". BBC.  125. ^ "Core Member Profile Victoria Stewart". The Playwrights' Center. May 20, 2008. Archived from the original on May 20, 2008. Retrieved March 4, 2010.  126. ^ Myriam Díaz-Diocaretz, Stefan Herbrechter (2006). The Matrix in theory. Rodopi. p. 136. ISBN 978-90-420-1639-2.  127. ^ Baudrillard, Jean. "'Simulacra and Science Fiction'". Science Fiction Studies. Retrieved May 26, 2007.  128. ^ Killjoy, Margaret (2009). Mythmakers and Lawbreakers. Stirling: AK Press. p. 209. ISBN 978-1-84935-002-0. OCLC 318877243.  129. ^ ""It's Official! Inductees Named for 2005 Hall of Fame Class"". Archived from the original on March 26, 2005. Retrieved August 19, 2016.. Press release March 24, 2005. Science Fiction Museum (sfhomeworld.org). Archived March 26, 2005. Retrieved March 22, 2013.  130. ^ "Philip K. Dick" Archived March 27, 2015, at the Wayback Machine.. The Locus Index to SF Awards: Index of Literary Nominees. Locus Publications. Retrieved March 22, 2013.  131. ^ a b "1965 Award Winners & Nominees". Worlds Without End. Retrieved June 26, 2009.  132. ^ "1968 Award Winners & Nominees". Worlds Without End. Retrieved June 26, 2009.  133. ^ "1974 Award Winners & Nominees". Worlds Without End. Retrieved June 26, 2009.  134. ^ "1982 Award Winners & Nominees". Worlds Without End. Retrieved June 26, 2009.  135. ^ "1978 Award Winners & Nominees". Worlds Without End. Retrieved June 26, 2009.  136. ^ a b "Philip K. Dick Award". The Locus Index to SF Awards: About the Awards. Locus Publications. Archived from the original on April 12, 2009. Retrieved March 22, 2013.  Further reading Primary bibliography   - Precious Artifacts : A Philip K. Dick Bibliography, United States of America and United Kingdom Editions, 1955 – 2012. Compiled by Henri Wintz and David Hyde. (Wide Books 2012). www.wide-books.com - Precious Artifacts 2: A Philip K. Dick Bibliography, The Short Stories, United States, United Kingdom and Oceania, 1952 – 2014. Compiled by Henri Wintz and David Hyde (Wide Books 2014). www.wide-books.com Secondary bibliography   - Philip K. Dick bibliography#Book-length critical studies External links   - Works by Philip K. Dick at Open Library  - Philip K. Dick on IMDb  - Philip K. Dick at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database - Philip K. Dick at the Internet Book List - "Philip K. Dick biography". Science Fiction and Fantasy Hall of Fame. - Philip K. Dick at Find a Grave - Are the robots waking up? – ABC Radio National – 360documentaries - Dark Roasted Blend: Science Fiction and Fantasy Reading Experience: Philip K. Dick - Works by Philip K. Dick at Project Gutenberg - Works by or about Philip K. Dick at Internet Archive - Works by Philip K. Dick at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks)  - Transcript "If You Find This World Bad, You Should See Some of the Others" - Philip K. Dick at Library of Congress Authorities, with 164 catalog records - 13 Free Science Fiction Stories by Philip K. Dick (text and audio) Related   - Philip K. Dick Award
Philip Michael Ondaatje, CC FRSL (/ɒnˈdɑːtʃiː/; born 12 September 1943), is a Sri Lanka-born Canadian poet, fiction writer, essayist, novelist, editor and filmmaker. He is the recipient of multiple literary awards such as the Governor General's Award, the Giller Prize, the Booker Prize, and the Prix Médicis étranger. Ondaatje is also an Officer of the Order of Canada, recognizing him as one of Canada's most renowned living authors.   Ondaatje's literary career began with his poetry in 1967, publishing The Dainty Monsters, and then in 1970 the critically acclaimed The Collected Works of Billy the Kid. However, he is more recently recognized for his nationally and internationally successful novel The English Patient (1992), which was adapted into a film in 1996. In 2018, Ondaatje won the Golden Man Booker Prize for The English Patient.   In addition to his literary writing, Ondaatje has been an important force in "fostering new Canadian writing" with two decades commitment to Coach House Press (around 1970-90), and his editorial credits on Canadian literary projects like the journal Brick, and the Long Poem Anthology (1979), among others.
Philippa Gregory (born 9 January 1954) is an English historical novelist who has been publishing since 1987. The best known of her works is The Other Boleyn Girl (2001), which in 2002 won the Romantic Novel of the Year Award from the Romantic Novelists' Association and has been adapted into two separate films.   AudioFile magazine has called Gregory "the queen of British historical fiction".
Pierce Brown is an American science fiction author who writes the Red Rising series, consisting of Red Rising (2014), Golden Son (2015), Morning Star (2016), Iron Gold (2018) and Dark Age (2019).
Pierre Teilhard de Chardin SJ (French: [pjɛʁ tejaʁ də ʃaʁdɛ̃] (listen (help·info)); 1 May 1881 – 10 April 1955) was a French idealist philosopher and Jesuit priest who trained as a paleontologist and geologist and took part in the discovery of Peking Man. He conceived the vitalist idea of the Omega Point (a maximum level of complexity and consciousness towards which he believed the universe was evolving) and developed Vladimir Vernadsky's concept of noosphere.   Although many of Teilhard's writings were censored by the Catholic Church during his lifetime because of his views on original sin, Teilhard has been posthumously praised by Pope Benedict XVI and other eminent Catholic figures, and his theological teachings were cited by Pope Francis in the 2015 encyclical, Laudato si'. The response to his writings by evolutionary biologists has been, with some exceptions, decidedly negative.
Plato (/ˈpleɪtoʊ/; Greek: Πλάτων Plátōn, pronounced [plá.tɔːn] in Classical Attic; 428/427 or 424/423 – 348/347 BC) was a philosopher in Classical Greece and the founder of the Academy in Athens, the first institution of higher learning in the Western world. He is widely considered the pivotal figure in the development of Western philosophy. Unlike nearly all of his philosophical contemporaries, Plato's entire work is believed to have survived intact for over 2,400 years.   Along with his teacher, Socrates, and his most famous student, Aristotle, Plato laid the foundations of Western philosophy and science. Alfred North Whitehead once noted: "the safest general characterization of the European philosophical tradition is that it consists of a series of footnotes to Plato." In addition to being a foundational figure for Western science, philosophy, and mathematics, Plato has also often been cited as one of the founders of Western religion and spirituality.   Plato was the innovator of the written dialogue and dialectic forms in philosophy. Plato appears to have been the founder of Western political philosophy, with his Republic, and Laws among other dialogues, providing some of the earliest extant treatments of political questions from a philosophical perspective. Plato's own most decisive philosophical influences are usually thought to have been Socrates, Parmenides, Heraclitus and Pythagoras, although few of his predecessors' works remain extant and much of what we know about these figures today derives from Plato himself.   The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy describes Plato as "...one of the most dazzling writers in the Western literary tradition and one of the most penetrating, wide-ranging, and influential authors in the history of philosophy. ... He was not the first thinker or writer to whom the word “philosopher” should be applied. But he was so self-conscious about how philosophy should be conceived, and what its scope and ambitions properly are, and he so transformed the intellectual currents with which he grappled, that the subject of philosophy, as it is often conceived—a rigorous and systematic examination of ethical, political, metaphysical, and epistemological issues, armed with a distinctive method—can be called his invention. Few other authors in the history of Western philosophy approximate him in depth and range: perhaps only Aristotle (who studied with him), Aquinas and Kant would be generally agreed to be of the same rank."
Plotinus (/plɒˈtaɪnəs/; Greek: Πλωτῖνος, Plōtinos; c. 204/5 – 270) was a major Greek-speaking philosopher of the ancient world. In his philosophy, described in the Enneads, there are three principles: the One, the Intellect, and the Soul. His teacher was Ammonius Saccas and he is of the Platonic tradition. Historians of the 19th century invented the term Neoplatonism and applied it to him and his philosophy which was influential in Late Antiquity. Much of the biographical information about Plotinus comes from Porphyry's preface to his edition of Plotinus' Enneads. His metaphysical writings have inspired centuries of Pagan, Islamic, Jewish, Christian, and Gnostic metaphysicians and mystics.
Plutarch (/ˈpluːtɑːrk/; Greek: Πλούταρχος, Ploútarkhos, Koine Greek: [plǔːtarkʰos]; c. 46 AD – 120 AD), later named, upon becoming a Roman citizen, Lucius Mestrius Plutarchus, (Λούκιος Μέστριος Πλούταρχος) was a Greek biographer and essayist, known primarily for his Parallel Lives and Moralia. He is classified as a Middle Platonist. Plutarch's surviving works were written in Greek, but intended for both Greek and Roman readers.
Pramoedya Ananta Toer (EYD: Pramudya Ananta Tur) (6 February 1925 – 30 April 2006) was an Indonesian author of novels, short stories, essays, polemics and histories of his homeland and its people. His works span the colonial period, Indonesia's struggle for independence, its occupation by Japan during the Second World War, as well as the post-colonial authoritarian regimes of Sukarno and Suharto, and are infused with personal and national history. The Dutch Government imprisoned him from 1947 to 1949, the Suharto regime from 1965 to 1979.   Pramoedya's writings sometimes fell out of favor with the colonial and later the authoritarian native governments in power. Pramoedya faced censorship in Indonesia during the pre-reformation era despite the fact that he was well known outside Indonesia. The Dutch imprisoned him from 1947 to 1949 during the War of Independence (1945-1949). During the changeover (coup) to the Suharto regime Pramoedya was caught up in the shifting tides of political change and power struggles in Indonesia. Suharto had him imprisoned from 1969 to 1979 on the Maluku island of Buru and branded him a Communist. He was seen as a holdover from the previous regime (even though he had struggled with the former Sukarno regime). It was on the Island of Buru that he composed his most famous work, the Buru Quartet. Not permitted access to writing materials, he recited the story orally to other prisoners before it was written down and smuggled out. Pramoedya opposed some policies of founding President Sukarno as well as the New Order regime of Suharto, Sukarno's successor. Political criticisms were often subtle in his writing, although he was outspoken against colonialism, racism and corruption of the Indonesian new Government. During the many years in which he suffered imprisonment and house arrest (in Jakarta after his imprisonment on Buru), he became a cause célèbre for advocates of human rights and freedom of expression.
Prem Prakash is an Indian actor who predominantly works in Malayalam Television serials and a renowned producer in Malayalam movies. He is mainly known for supporting roles as well as character roles. He has produced more than 10 Malayalam films. He is currently serving as the treasurer of Kerala Film Producers Association.
Professor Amit Abraham is presently the Deputy Vice Chancellor at the Mount Zion International University  Kigali, Rwanda. Prior to this he was the Registrar at Kazi Nazrul University, Asansol, West Bengal, India (March 2017 - March 2018). He has been the former principal of Scottish Church College, Kolkata, India (July 2015 - August 2016). He has served as the head of the postgraduate department of psychology at St. John's College, Agra (March 1991 to July 2015). He was teaching graduate and postgraduate classes along with supervision of research work. He had been actively involved in various offbeat research works related with the human psyche. He did his schooling from St. Joseph's College, Nainital and his post-graduate work in psychology from the Delhi University. His PhD is in the area of personality as determined and influenced by the Zodiac signs of individuals. He has been the Coordinator of the National Commission For Minority Educational Institutions, New Delhi (Under the ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India, New Delhi) for three consecutive terms (2005–2008). He is also the recipient of the U.P. Shikshak Samman for the year 2006, awarded by Bright Organization of Youth, Agra. He features in text books of various state governments, as an eminent Indian psychologist, which detail out his diversified contributions in the field of psychology and social causes.
Publius (or Gaius) Cornelius Tacitus (/ˈtæsɪtəs/; Classical Latin: [ˈtakɪtʊs]; c.  56 – c.  120 AD) was a senator and a historian of the Roman Empire. The surviving portions of his two major works—the Annals and the Histories—examine the reigns of the emperors Tiberius, Claudius, Nero, and those who reigned in the Year of the Four Emperors (69 AD). These two works span the history of the Roman Empire from the death of Augustus, in 14 AD, to the years of the First Jewish–Roman War, in 70 AD. There are substantial lacunae in the surviving texts, including a gap in the Annals that is four books long.   Tacitus' other writings discuss oratory (in dialogue format, see Dialogus de oratoribus), Germania (in De origine et situ Germanorum), and the life of his father-in-law, Agricola, the general responsible for much of the Roman conquest of Britain, mainly focusing on his campaign in Britannia (De vita et moribus Iulii Agricolae).   Tacitus is considered to be one of the greatest Roman historians. He lived in what has been called the Silver Age of Latin literature, and is known for the brevity and compactness of his Latin prose, as well as for his penetrating insights into the psychology of power politics.
Publius Ovidius Naso (Classical Latin: [ˈpu:.blɪ.ʊs ɔˈwɪ.dɪ.ʊs ˈnaː.soː]; 20 March 43 BC – 17/18 AD), known as Ovid (/ˈɒvɪd/) in the English-speaking world, was a Roman poet who lived during the reign of Augustus. He was a contemporary of the older Virgil and Horace, with whom he is often ranked as one of the three canonical poets of Latin literature. The Imperial scholar Quintilian considered him the last of the Latin love elegists. He enjoyed enormous popularity, but, in one of the mysteries of literary history, was sent by Augustus into exile in a remote province on the Black Sea, where he remained until his death. Ovid himself attributes his exile to carmen et error, "a poem and a mistake", but his discretion in discussing the causes has resulted in much speculation among scholars.   The first major Roman poet to begin his career during the reign of Augustus, Ovid is today best known for the Metamorphoses, a 15-book continuous mythological narrative written in the meter of epic, and for works in elegiac couplets such as Ars Amatoria ("The Art of Love") and Fasti. His poetry was much imitated during Late Antiquity and the Middle Ages, and greatly influenced Western art and literature. The Metamorphoses remains one of the most important sources of classical mythology.
Publius Vergilius Maro (Classical Latin: [ˈpuː.blɪ.ʊs wɛrˈɡɪ.lɪ.ʊs ˈma.roː]; traditional dates October 15, 70 BC – September 21, 19 BC), usually called Virgil or Vergil (/ˈvɜːrdʒɪl/) in English, was an ancient Roman poet of the Augustan period. He wrote three of the most famous poems in Latin literature: the Eclogues (or Bucolics), the Georgics, and the epic Aeneid. A number of minor poems, collected in the Appendix Vergiliana, are sometimes attributed to him.   Virgil is traditionally ranked as one of Rome's greatest poets. His Aeneid has been considered the national epic of ancient Rome since the time of its composition. Modeled after Homer's Iliad and Odyssey, the Aeneid follows the Trojan refugee Aeneas as he struggles to fulfill his destiny and reach Italy, where his descendants Romulus and Remus were to found the city of Rome. Virgil's work has had wide and deep influence on Western literature, most notably Dante's Divine Comedy, in which Virgil appears as Dante's guide through Hell and Purgatory.
Pythagoras of Samos (c. 570 – c. 495 BC) was an ancient Ionian Greek philosopher and the eponymous founder of Pythagoreanism. His political and religious teachings were well known in Magna Graecia and influenced the philosophies of Plato, Aristotle, and, through them, Western philosophy. Knowledge of his life is clouded by legend, but he appears to have been the son of Mnesarchus, a seal engraver on the island of Samos. Modern scholars disagree regarding Pythagoras's education and influences, but they do agree that, around 530 BC, he travelled to Croton, where he founded a school in which initiates were sworn to secrecy and lived a communal, ascetic lifestyle. This lifestyle entailed a number of dietary prohibitions, traditionally said to have included vegetarianism, although modern scholars doubt that he ever advocated for complete vegetarianism.   The teaching most securely identified with Pythagoras is metempsychosis, or the "transmigration of souls", which holds that every soul is immortal and, upon death, enters into a new body. He may have also devised the doctrine of musica universalis, which holds that the planets move according to mathematical equations and thus resonate to produce an inaudible symphony of music. Scholars debate whether Pythagoras developed the numerological and musical teachings attributed to him, or if those teachings were developed by his later followers, particularly Philolaus of Croton. Following Croton's decisive victory over Sybaris in around 510 BC, Pythagoras's followers came into conflict with supporters of democracy and Pythagorean meeting houses were burned. Pythagoras may have been killed during this persecution, or escaped to Metapontum, where he eventually died.   In antiquity, Pythagoras was credited with many mathematical and scientific discoveries, including the Pythagorean theorem, Pythagorean tuning, the five regular solids, the Theory of Proportions, the sphericity of the Earth, and the identity of the morning and evening stars as the planet Venus. It was said that he was the first man to call himself a philosopher ("lover of wisdom") and that he was the first to divide the globe into five climatic zones. Classical historians debate whether Pythagoras made these discoveries, and many of the accomplishments credited to him likely originated earlier or were made by his colleagues or successors. Some accounts mention that the philosophy associated with Pythagoras was related to mathematics and that numbers were important, but it is debated to what extent, if at all, he actually contributed to mathematics or natural philosophy.   Pythagoras influenced Plato, whose dialogues, especially his Timaeus, exhibit Pythagorean teachings. Pythagorean ideas on mathematical perfection also impacted ancient Greek art. His teachings underwent a major revival in the first century BC among Middle Platonists, coinciding with the rise of Neopythagoreanism. Pythagoras continued to be regarded as a great philosopher throughout the Middle Ages and his philosophy had a major impact on scientists such as Nicolaus Copernicus, Johannes Kepler, and Isaac Newton. Pythagorean symbolism was used throughout early modern European esotericism and his teachings as portrayed in Ovid's Metamorphoses influenced the modern vegetarian movement.
Quintus Horatius Flaccus (December 8, 65 BC – November 27, 8 BC), known in the English-speaking world as Horace (/ˈhɒrɪs/), was the leading Roman lyric poet during the time of Augustus (also known as Octavian). The rhetorician Quintilian regarded his Odes as just about the only Latin lyrics worth reading: "He can be lofty sometimes, yet he is also full of charm and grace, versatile in his figures, and felicitously daring in his choice of words."[nb 1]   Horace also crafted elegant hexameter verses (Satires and Epistles) and caustic iambic poetry (Epodes). The hexameters are amusing yet serious works, friendly in tone, leading the ancient satirist Persius to comment: "as his friend laughs, Horace slyly puts his finger on his every fault; once let in, he plays about the heartstrings".[nb 2]   His career coincided with Rome's momentous change from a republic to an empire. An officer in the republican army defeated at the Battle of Philippi in 42 BC, he was befriended by Octavian's right-hand man in civil affairs, Maecenas, and became a spokesman for the new regime. For some commentators, his association with the regime was a delicate balance in which he maintained a strong measure of independence (he was "a master of the graceful sidestep") but for others he was, in John Dryden's phrase, "a well-mannered court slave".[nb 3]
Rabindranath Tagore FRAS (/rəˈbɪndrənɑːt tæˈɡɔːr/ (; 7 May 1861 – 7 August 1941), sobriquet Gurudev, was a Bengali polymath from the Indian subcontinent, a poet, musician and artist. He reshaped Bengali literature and music, as well as Indian art with Contextual Modernism in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Author of Gitanjali and its "profoundly sensitive, fresh and beautiful verse", he became in 1913 the first non-European to win the Nobel Prize in Literature. Tagore's poetic songs were viewed as spiritual and mercurial; however, his "elegant prose and magical poetry" remain largely unknown outside Bengal. He is sometimes referred to as "the Bard of Bengal".   A Pirali Brahmin from Calcutta with ancestral gentry roots in Jessore, Tagore wrote poetry as an eight-year-old. At the age of sixteen, he released his first substantial poems under the pseudonym Bhānusiṃha ("Sun Lion"), which were seized upon by literary authorities as long-lost classics. By 1877 he graduated to his first short stories and dramas, published under his real name. As a humanist, universalist, internationalist, and ardent anti-nationalist, he denounced the British Raj and advocated independence from Britain. As an exponent of the Bengal Renaissance, he advanced a vast canon that comprised paintings, sketches and doodles, hundreds of texts, and some two thousand songs; his legacy also endures in the institution he founded, Visva-Bharati University.   Tagore modernised Bengali art by spurning rigid classical forms and resisting linguistic strictures. His novels, stories, songs, dance-dramas, and essays spoke to topics political and personal. Gitanjali (Song Offerings), Gora (Fair-Faced) and Ghare-Baire (The Home and the World) are his best-known works, and his verse, short stories, and novels were acclaimed—or panned—for their lyricism, colloquialism, naturalism, and unnatural contemplation. His compositions were chosen by two nations as national anthems: India's Jana Gana Mana and Bangladesh's Amar Shonar Bangla. The Sri Lankan national anthem was inspired by his work.
Rachel Caine is a pen name of Roxanne Longstreet Conrad, an American writer of science fiction, fantasy, mystery, suspense, and horror novels. She also publishes media tie-in novels as Julie Fortune.
Rachel Hartman (born July 9, 1972 in Kentucky) is an American writer and artist of comics, and an author of young adult fiction. She is known for her books Seraphina (2012),Shadow Scale (2015), and Tess of the Road (2018).
Rachel Held Evans (née Rachel Grace Held, June 8, 1981) is an American Christian columnist, blogger and author. Her book A Year of Biblical Womanhood was on The New York Times' e-book non-fiction best-seller list.
Rachel Vincent is an American author best known for her Shifters series, a present-day urban fantasy series about a female werecat.
Rae Carson (born 1973) is an American fantasy writer.   Her debut novel, The Girl of Fire and Thorns, was published in 2011. It was a finalist for the William C. Morris YA Award and the Andre Norton Award, and it was the winner of the Ohioana Book Award for Young Adult Literature. It was also selected as 2012 Top Ten Best Fiction for Young Adults by Young Adult Library Services Association. The series was a New York Times bestseller. Her books have also been translated into languages around the world.   She is married to science fiction writer Charles Coleman Finlay.
Rainbow Rowell (born February 24, 1973) is an American author of young adult and adult contemporary novels. Her young adult novels Eleanor & Park (2013), Fangirl (2013) and Carry On (2015) have been subjects of critical acclaim.   She is currently the writer of the 2017 revival of Marvel Comics' Runaways.
Rajneesh (born Chandra Mohan Jain, 11 December 1931 – 19 January 1990), also known as Acharya Rajneesh, Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh, and latterly as Osho (/ˈoʊʃoʊ/), was an Indian spiritual guru, philosopher and the leader of the Rajneesh movement. During his lifetime he was viewed as a controversial new religious movement leader and mystic. In the 1960s he traveled throughout India as a public speaker and was a vocal critic of socialism, arguing that India was not ready for socialism and that socialism, communism and anarchism could evolve only when capitalism had reached its maturity. Rajneesh also criticised Mahatma Gandhi, and Hindu religious orthodoxy. Rajneesh emphasized the importance of meditation, mindfulness, love, celebration, courage, creativity and humour—qualities that he viewed as being suppressed by adherence to static belief systems, religious tradition and socialisation. In advocating a more open attitude to human sexuality he caused controversy in India during the late 1960s and became known as "the sex guru".   In 1970, Rajneesh spent time in Mumbai initiating followers known as "neo-sannyasins". During this period he expanded his spiritual teachings and commented extensively in discourses on the writings of religious traditions, mystics, and philosophers from around the world. In 1974, Rajneesh relocated to Pune, where an ashram was established and a variety of therapies, incorporating methods first developed by the Human Potential Movement, were offered to a growing Western following. By the late 1970s, the tension between the ruling Janata Party government of Morarji Desai and the movement led to a curbing of the ashram's development and a back taxes claim estimated at $5 million.   In 1981, the Rajneesh movement's efforts refocused on activities in the United States and Rajneesh relocated to a facility known as Rajneeshpuram in Wasco County, Oregon. Almost immediately the movement ran into conflict with county residents and the state government, and a succession of legal battles concerning the ashram's construction and continued development curtailed its success. In 1985, in the wake of a series of serious crimes by his followers, including a mass food poisoning attack with Salmonella bacteria and an aborted assassination plot to murder U.S. Attorney Charles H. Turner, Rajneesh alleged that his personal secretary Ma Anand Sheela and her close supporters had been responsible. He was later deported from the United States in accordance with an Alford plea bargain.   After his deportation, 21 countries denied him entry. He ultimately returned to India and a revived Pune ashram, where he died in 1990. Rajneesh's ashram, now known as OSHO International Meditation Resort, and all associated intellectual property, is managed by the Zurich registered Osho International Foundation (formerly Rajneesh International Foundation). Rajneesh's teachings have had a notable impact on Western New Age thought, and their popularity has increased markedly since his death.
Ralph Metzner (born May 18, 1936, in Germany) is an American psychologist, writer and researcher, who participated in psychedelic research at Harvard University in the early 1960s with Timothy Leary and Richard Alpert (later named Ram Dass). Metzner is a psychotherapist, and Professor Emeritus of psychology at the California Institute of Integral Studies in San Francisco, where he was formerly the Academic Dean and Academic Vice-president.   Metzner has been involved in consciousness research, including psychedelics, yoga, meditation and shamanism for over 50 years. He is a co-founder and President of the Green Earth Foundation, a non-profit educational organization devoted to healing and harmonizing the relationship between humans and the Earth, and a signatory to the 9/11 Truth Statement. Metzner was featured in the 2006 film Entheogen: Awakening the Divine Within, a documentary about rediscovering an enchanted cosmos in the modern world.   He conducts workshops on consciousness transformation and alchemical divination, both nationally and internationally. He is also a poet and singer-songwriter and has produced two CDs with Kit Walker: A spoken word CD ("Spirit Soundings," with music by Kit Walker) and one music CD of original songs ("Bardo Blues").   He received his Ph.D in Psychology from Harvard.
Ralph Waldo Emerson (May 25, 1803 – April 27, 1882) was an American essayist, lecturer, philosopher, and poet who led the transcendentalist movement of the mid-19th century. He was seen as a champion of individualism and a prescient critic of the countervailing pressures of society, and he disseminated his thoughts through dozens of published essays and more than 1,500 public lectures across the United States.   Emerson gradually moved away from the religious and social beliefs of his contemporaries, formulating and expressing the philosophy of transcendentalism in his 1836 essay "Nature". Following this work, he gave a speech entitled "The American Scholar" in 1837, which Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr. considered to be America's "intellectual Declaration of Independence."   Emerson wrote most of his important essays as lectures first and then revised them for print. His first two collections of essays, Essays: First Series (1841) and Essays: Second Series (1844), represent the core of his thinking. They include the well-known essays "Self-Reliance", "The Over-Soul", "Circles", "The Poet", and "Experience." Together with "Nature", these essays made the decade from the mid-1830s to the mid-1840s Emerson's most fertile period. Emerson wrote on a number of subjects, never espousing fixed philosophical tenets, but developing certain ideas such as individuality, freedom, the ability for mankind to realize almost anything, and the relationship between the soul and the surrounding world. Emerson's "nature" was more philosophical than naturalistic: "Philosophically considered, the universe is composed of Nature and the Soul." Emerson is one of several figures who "took a more pantheist or pandeist approach by rejecting views of God as separate from the world."   He remains among the linchpins of the American romantic movement, and his work has greatly influenced the thinkers, writers and poets that followed him. "In all my lectures," he wrote, "I have taught one doctrine, namely, the infinitude of the private man." Emerson is also well known as a mentor and friend of Henry David Thoreau, a fellow transcendentalist.
Ramakrishna Paramahansa Ramkṛiṣṇa Pôromôhongśa (রামকৃষ্ণ পরমহংস) (help·info); 18 February 1836 – 16 August 1886), born Gadadhar Chatterjee or Gadadhar Chattopadhyay, was an Indian Hindu mystic and saint in 19th century Bengal. Ramakrishna experienced spiritual ecstasies from a young age, and was influenced by several religious traditions, including devotion toward the goddess Kali, Tantra (shakta), Vaishnava (bhakti), and Advaita Vedanta. Reverence and admiration for him among Bengali elites led to the formation of the Ramakrishna Mission by his chief disciple Swami Vivekananda.
Ramana Maharshi /ˈrʌmənə məhʌˈrɪʃi/ (30 December 1879 – 14 April 1950) was a Hindu sage and jivanmukta. He was born as Venkataraman Iyer, but is most commonly known by the name Bhagavan Sri Ramana Maharshi.   He was born in what is now Tiruchuli, Tamil Nadu, India. In 1895, an attraction to the sacred hill Arunachala and the 63 Nayanars was aroused in him, and in 1896, at the age of 16, he had a "death-experience" where he became aware of a "current" or "force" (avesam) which he recognised as his true "I" or "self",[web 1] and which he later identified with "the personal God, or Iswara",[web 1] that is, Shiva. This resulted in a state that he later described as "the state of mind of Iswara or the jnani".[web 1] Six weeks later he left his uncle's home in Madurai, and journeyed to the holy mountain Arunachala, in Tiruvannamalai, where he took on the role of a sannyasin (though not formally initiated), and remained for the rest of his life.   He soon attracted devotees who regarded him as an avatar and came to him for darshan ("the sight of God"), and in later years an ashram grew up around him, where visitors received upadesa ("spiritual instruction") by sitting silently in his company asking questions. Since the 1930s his teachings have been popularized in the West, resulting in his worldwide recognition as an enlightened being.   Ramana Maharshi approved a number of paths and practices, but recommended self-enquiry as the principal means to remove ignorance and abide in Self-awareness,[web 2] together with bhakti (devotion) or surrender to the Self.[web 2]
Ransom Riggs (born February 3, 1979) is an American writer and filmmaker best known for the book Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children.
Rasheed Ogunlaru is a life coach, speaker, author of Soul Trader - Putting the Heart Back into Your Business, The Gift of Inner Success, A Zest for Business and business coach partner of the British Library's Business & Intellectual Property Centre.  Biography   Ogunlaru was born in London in the early 1970s to Nigerian parents. He was educated at Haberdashers' Aske's Boys' School. Ogunlaru spent the first 10 years of his career from the age of 18 working for Which?. It was here that he first got a taste of coaching when he trained key members of staff to appear on TV, radio and in the press.   In the late 1990s redundancy led Ogunlaru to pursue his passion as a singer-songwriter but his own career was without commercial success. However he helping others promote their careers utilizing his media skills. At this time he also became a volunteer for the Samaritans in central London with whom he served as Co-Director 2003-2005. He continued working part time in media and PR, including a spell as Communications Manager for the UK College of Family Mediators.   From 2001-2004 Ogunlaru ran The Mind, Body & Spirit of Singing which he founded with Marcus Fellowes. It focused on helping artists find deeper levels of awareness in their selves, singing and careers. During this time Ogunlaru trained and later qualified as a Professional Life Coach with the Coaching Academy  — with whom he later returned as an external trainer.   Today Rasheed Ogunlaru is among the UK's most popular and renowned life coaches and motivational speakers.[citation needed] His clients have included Top 10 pop stars, Chief Executives, politicians, entrepreneurs, teachers, healers, organisations and others. He is author of Soul Trader - Putting the Heart Back into Your Business, The Gift of Inner Success and A Zest for Business.   He has been involved in coaching programmes with Mayor's London Development Agency and has spoken at major shows, conferences and exhibitions across the UK. He is also the life & business coach partner to the British Library where he runs Your Life, Your Business, a monthly workshop for new and established business owners, and Business Link events for fledgling entrepreneurs.   Ogunlaru has appeared on TV and radio including appearances on ITV News and BBC Breakfast. He has spent time as a regular life coach guest on BBC London and well as for Psychologies Magazine where he can often be found as an Online 'agony uncle' style coach. He enjoys great popularity across public, business and spiritual development circles—and can often be seen at events inspiring new and established entrepreneurs. Ogunlaru also produced his own TV pilot The Rasheed Show...Be the Change, See the Change which features an interviews with [Dame Tanni Grey-Thomson]. In 2009 he also became an expert panel member for [Leadsure], The University of London Computer Centre's online resource for small business.  References    1. ^ "Business Advice | Business Resources | BIPC". Bl.uk. 2003-11-30. Retrieved 2013-10-08.  2. ^  Archived May 3, 2009, at the Wayback Machine.  3. ^ "Useful Links / The Coaching Academy". The-coaching-academy.com. Retrieved 2013-10-08.  4. ^ "Rasheed Ogunlaru: Books, Biography, Blog, Audiobooks, Kindle". Amazon.com. Retrieved 2013-10-08.  5. ^ "British Library Business & IP Centre in London | Rasheed Ogunlaru". Bl.uk. 2003-11-30. Retrieved 2013-10-08.  6. ^ "British Library Business & IP Centre in London | Your life, your business workshop". Bl.uk. 2003-11-30. Archived from the original on 2013-10-04. Retrieved 2013-10-08.  7. ^   8. ^ "Work stress to life balance: Rasheed Ogunlaru on ITV News". YouTube. 2007-12-22. Retrieved 2013-10-08.  9. ^ "UK | A masterclass in charisma". BBC News. 2009-01-21. Retrieved 2013-10-08.  10. ^  Archived February 16, 2009, at the Wayback Machine.  11. ^ https://web.archive.org/web/20090416214904/http://www.rasaru.com/content/view/62/49/. Archived from the original on April 16, 2009. Retrieved May 10, 2009. Missing or empty |title= (help)  12. ^ [dead link]
Ravi Zacharias (born 26 March 1946) is an Indian-born Canadian-American Christian apologist. A defender of evangelical Protestantism Zacharias is the author of numerous Christian books, including the Evangelical Christian Publishers Association's Gold Medallion Book Award winner Can Man Live Without God? in the category "theology and doctrine" and Christian bestsellers Light in the Shadow of Jihad and The Grand Weaver. Zacharias is the founder and chairman of the board of Ravi Zacharias International Ministries (RZIM) and host of the radio programs Let My People Think and Just Thinking.
Ray Bradbury at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database (ISFDB). Retrieved April 22, 2013. Select a title to see its linked publication history and general information. Select a particular edition (title) for more data at that level, such as a front cover image or linked contents. ^ a b c Jonas, Gerald (June 6, 2012). "Ray Bradbury, Master of Science Fiction, Dies at 91". The New York Times. Retrieved June 5, 2012.  ^ Society for the Study of Midwestern Literature (2001). Greasley, Philip A., ed. Dictionary of Midwestern Literature. 1, The Authors. Indiana University Press. p. 77. ISBN 9780253336095. Retrieved March 5, 2014.  ^ p.141 Bloom, Harold Ray Bradbury 2010 Infobase Publishing  ^ Touponce, William F. "Ray (Douglas) Bradbury." American Writers: A Collection of Literary Biographies, Supplement 4. Ed. A Walton Litz and Molly Weigel. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1996. Literature Resources from Gale. November 16, 2010.  ^ Certificate of Birth, Ray Douglas Bradbury, August 22, 1920, Lake County Clerk's Record #4750. Although he was named after Rae Williams, a cousin on his father's side, Ray Bradbury's birth certificate spells his first name as "Ray".  ^ The Spaulding Family Memorial, 1899  ^ Eller, Jonathan (2011). Becoming Ray Bradbury. University of Illinois Press. p. 202. ISBN 0252036298.  ^ Paradowski, Robert J. "Ray Bradbury". Critical Survey of Short Fiction, Second Revised Edition" 2001:1–5. EBSCO. November 8, 2010.  ^ Ray Bradbury's close encounters with W.C. Fields, George Burns... by Susan King; Los Angeles Times, August 18, 2010  ^ "Old Radio Shows.org". Old Radio Shows.org.  ^ Litz, A. Walton. American Writers Supplement IV. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1996. Print.  ^ Weller, Sam (2010-01-01). "Ray Bradbury, The Art of Fiction No. 203". Paris Review (192). ISSN 0031-2037. Retrieved 2016-08-26.  ^ Weller, Sam (2010-01-01). "Ray Bradbury, The Art of Fiction No. 203". Paris Review (192). ISSN 0031-2037. Retrieved 2016-08-24.  ^ Contemporary Authors Online. Ray Bradbury. Detroit: Gale, 2009. Web.  ^ Heller, Terry. Magill's Survey of American Literature. Revised Edition. Pasadena: Salem Press, 2006. Print.  ^ The article linked appears in the source, but this name conflicts with the group's web site.  ^ "The Big Read". Neabigread.org. Retrieved July 6, 2012.  ^ Ray Bradbury interview – The art of Fiction No. 203 The Paris Review; Spring, 2009  ^ a b c d e f Ken Kelley (1996). "About Ray Bradbury Interview". Playboy.  ^ "Ray Bradbury: "Russians have an unparalleled capacity for love"". www.rbth.ru. Russia Beyond The Headlines. Retrieved September 15, 2012.  ^ Marguerite bradbury – Ray Bradbury Discussion Ray Bradbury Official website  ^ Sam Weller (Spring 2010). "Ray Bradbury, The Art of Fiction No. 203". The Paris Review.  ^ Bradbury, Ray (1972). The Veldt. Woodstock, Illinois: Dramatic Publishing. p. 4. ISBN 1-58342-028-2.  ^ "Biographies: Bradbury, Raymond Douglas". s9.com. Retrieved December 9, 2009.  ^ Cuppy, Will, "Review of Dark Carnival," New York Herald Tribune Books, May 25, 1947.  ^ Ray Bradbury, From Truman Capote to A.T.M.’s, by Dean Robinson – 6th floor; The New York Times, June 6, 2012  ^ A Bruin Birthday Tribute To Ray Bradbury Tweet (August 22, 2010). "First Spark: Ray Bradbury Turns 90; The Universe and UCLA Academy Celebrate". Spotlight.ucla.edu. Archived from the original on October 5, 2011. Retrieved September 30, 2011.  ^ Isherwood, Christopher (October 1950), "A Review of The Martian Chronicles", Tomorrow, 10: 56–58  ^ Paradowski, Robert J. "Ray Bradbury." Critical Survey of Short Fiction, Second Revised Edition (2001): UFO. November 10, 2010.  ^ a b "In His Words". RayBradbury.com. Retrieved December 9, 2009.  ^ Terry Sanders' film Ray Bradbury: Story of a Writer (1963)  ^ a b The Art of Fiction No. 203: Ray Bradbury, Interviewed by Sam Weller; The Paris Review, Spring 2010  ^ Wil Gerken; Nathan Hendler; Doug Floyd; John Banks. "Books: Grandfather Time (Weekly Alibi . 09-27-99)". Weeklywire.com. Retrieved February 14, 2010.  ^ A Conversation with Ray Bradbury Point Loma Nazarene University, Writer's Symposium By The Sea; "The only science fiction I have written is Fahrenheit 451. It's the art of the possible. Science fiction is the art of the possible. It could happen. It has happened." Discussion of genres, finding one's voice. April 2001; Cosmos Learning, English Literature  ^ Ray Bradbury interview "I am not a science fiction writer. I am a fantasy writer. But the label got put on me and stuck." March 23, 2005  ^ Personal lessons from futurist Ray Bradbury on crying, escaping, laughing, by Mick Mortlock; Oregon Live, June 6, 2012  ^ Ray Bradbury Biography Ray Bradbury Online  ^ Litz, A. Walton, and Molly Weigel, eds. American Writers (Supp. 4, Pt. 1). New York: Macmillian Library Reference. 1996. Print.  ^ Steinhauer, Jennifer (June 19, 2009). "A Literary Legend Fights for a Local Library". The New York Times. Retrieved December 9, 2009.  ^ "Mayor, Author Launch Library Funding Drive". Los Angeles Times, October 1, 1988  ^ Ray Bradbury Interview The Paris Review  ^ Garg, Anu, A Word a Day, 2017.08.22, wordsmith.org  ^ "Summer Morning, Summer Night by Ray Bradbury". Subterranean Press. Archived from the original on August 22, 2015.  ^ Sites from these works which still exist in Waukegan include his boyhood home, his grandparents' home next door (and their connecting lawns where his grandfather and he gathered dandelions to make wine) and, less than a block away, the famous ravine which Bradbury used as a metaphor throughout his career.  ^ Quoted by Kingsley Amis in New Maps of Hell: A Survey of Science Fiction (1960).  ^ Gasior, Ann (1 October 1994). "Bradbury Talk Likely to Feature the Unexpected". Florida State University Libraries. Dayton Daily News. pp. 104–105. Retrieved 2 June 2018.  ^ "I Do Not Want to Predict the Future. I Want to Prevent It". Quote Investigator. Retrieved February 21, 2015.  ^ You Bet Your Life #55-35 Science fiction author Ray Bradbury (Secret word 'House', May 24, 1956). YouTube. November 16, 2013.  ^ Bradbury, Ray. "The American Journey".  ^ Ray Bradbury. "In 1982 he created the interior metaphors for the Spaceship Earth display at Epcot Center, Disney World".  ^ Ray Bradbury. "The images at Spaceship Earth in DisneyWorld's EPCOT Center in Orlando? Well, they are all Bradbury's ideas".  ^ Ray Bradbury. "He also serves as a consultant, having collaborated, for example, in the design of a pavilion in the Epcot Center at Walt Disney World." Referring to Spaceship Earth ... raybradbury.com  ^ Litz, A. Walton., and Molly V. Weigel. American Writers: a Collection of Literary Biographies. New York: Scribner, 1996. Print  ^ Steinhauer, Jennifer (June 19, 2009). "A Literary Legend Fights for a Local Library". The New York Times. Retrieved June 7, 2012.  ^ Lemley, Brad (January 8, 1985). "Other Voices, Other Futures". PC Magazine. p. 133. Retrieved October 28, 2013.  ^ "Fahrenheit 451 becomes e-book despite author's feelings". BBC News. November 30, 2011. Retrieved December 1, 2011.  ^ Jablon, Robert (June 6, 2012). "'Fahrenheit 451' Author Ray Bradbury Dies at 91". Time. Archived from the original on June 8, 2012. Retrieved June 6, 2012.  ^ Ray Bradbury, 91, leaves a rich theatrical legacy too by David Ng; Los Angeles Times, June 6, 2012  ^ French, Lawrence "Richard Matheson remembers his good friend Charles Beaumont", March 24, 2010. Retrieved October 31, 2012.  ^ Ray Riegert, Hidden Coast of California: The Adventurer's Guide (Berkeley, Cal.: Ulysses Press, 1988), p. 133.  ^ Editor (June 10, 1994). National Student Film Institute/L.A: The Sixteenth Annual Los Angeles Student Film Festival. The Directors Guild Theatre. pp. 10–11. |access-date= requires |url= (help)  ^ Editor (June 7, 1991). Los Angeles Student Film Institute: 13th Annual Student Film Festival. The Directors Guild Theatre. p. 3. |access-date= requires |url= (help)  ^ "Telegraph obituary". The Daily Telegraph. June 6, 2012. Retrieved June 6, 2012.  ^ a b "Author Ray Bradbury dies, aged 91". BBC News. June 6, 2012. Retrieved June 6, 2012.  ^ Riddle, Warren (June 25, 2009). "Sci-Fi Author Ray Bradbury Trashes the Web". Switched. Archived from the original on October 1, 2011. Retrieved December 9, 2009.  ^ Blake, John (August 2, 2010). "Sci-fi legend Ray Bradbury on God, 'monsters and angels'". CNN. Retrieved October 14, 2015.  ^ Interview with Ray Bradbury Archived February 3, 2009, at the Wayback Machine. in IndieBound, fall 2001.  ^ Bradbury, Ray, From The Dust Returned: A Novel. William Morrow, 2001.  ^ Whitaker, Sheila (May 7, 2013). "Ray Harryhausen obituary". The Guardian. Retrieved June 4, 2013.  ^ BAFTA Online. "Ray Bradbury pays Tribute to Ray Harryhausen". YouTube. Retrieved July 12, 2010.  ^ Ryan, Joal (November 12, 1999). "Sci-Fi Great Ray Bradbury Suffers Stroke". E!. Retrieved June 6, 2012.  ^ Rogers, Jim (January 18, 2002). "Ray Bradbury Still Writing At 81". CBS News. Associated Press. Retrieved June 6, 2012.  ^ Bradbury, Ray (June 4, 2012). "Take Me Home". The New Yorker. Retrieved June 6, 2012.  ^ "Visiting Marilyn Monroe's grave: Resting places of the rich and famous". Test Pattern. MSNBC. August 15, 2007. Archived from the original on February 14, 2012. Retrieved April 7, 2012.  ^ Guthrie, Bruce. "CA – Westwood – Pierce Bros. Westwood Village Memorial Park: Ray Bradbury". Bruce Guthrie Photos. Retrieved April 7, 2012.  ^ Nagourney, Adam (February 6, 2015). "Classic or Ramshackle, Old Homes in Los Angeles Are Being Bulldozed Into History". The New York Times. Retrieved February 6, 2015.  ^ Duke, Alan (June 6, 2012). "Sci-fi legend Ray Bradbury dies". CNN. Retrieved June 6, 2012.  ^ Russell Lissau (June 17, 2013). "Ray Bradbury book collection going to Waukegan library". Daily Herald.  ^ a b George, Lynell (June 6, 2012). "Ray Bradbury dies at 91; author lifted fantasy to literary heights". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved June 6, 2012.  ^ Tsukayama, Hayley (June 6, 2012). "Dreams of Ray Bradbury: 10 predictions that came true". The Washington Post. Retrieved June 6, 2012.  ^ "Statement by the President on the Passing of Ray Bradbury". The White House. Retrieved June 8, 2012.  ^ "Tributes paid to sci-fi author Ray Bradbury". BBC News. June 6, 2012. Retrieved June 6, 2012.  ^ a b "Writers, filmmakers react to Ray Bradbury's death". Boston Globe. Associated Press. June 6, 2012. Retrieved June 6, 2012.  ^ Zeitchik, Steven (June 6, 2012). "Ray Bradbury was a huge influence on the film world too". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved June 6, 2012.  ^ Stephen Comments on the Death of Ray Bradbury. Stephen King. Retrieved June 7, 2012.  ^ Summer Morning, Summer Night, by Ray Bradbury; PS Publishing, 2007  ^ Goldsmith, Jerry (2002). Jerry Goldsmith: Christus Apollo (CD). Telarc.  ^ Jessie Lendennie, ed. (2006). "If Only We Had Taller Been". Daughter and Other Poems. Salmon Publishing. pp. 57–58.  ^ In Memoriam: Ray Bradbury 1920–2012. Jet Propulsion Laboratory. June 6, 2012. Retrieved June 7, 2012.  ^ Weller, Sam (2005). The Bradbury Chronicles: The Life of Ray Bradbury. New York: HarperCollins. pp. 301–302. ISBN 0-06-054581-X.  ^ "State fund of Television and Radio Programs" (in Russian).  ^ Будет ласковый дождь (in Russian). Archived from the original on September 9, 2012.  ^ "Вельд", Киностудия "Узбекфильм", 1987 (in Russian).  ^ Мультипликационные фильмы. Творческое объединение «Экран» (in Russian). Retrieved 14 August 2015.  ^ "Fahrenheit 451 (1984 game)".  ^ Fund, John (June 6, 2012). "Ray Bradbury, a Great Conservative". Nationalreview.com. Retrieved June 6, 2012.  ^ Weller, Sam (2005). The Bradbury Chronicles: The Life of Ray Bradbury. New York: HarperCollins. pp. 330–331. ISBN 0-06-054581-X.  ^ "Groon" (a poem) by Ray Bradbury. Vimeo.  ^ "Other SFWA Awards" Archived October 16, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.. The Locus Index to SF Awards: About the Awards. Locus Publications. Retrieved April 2, 2013.  ^ "Frequently Asked Questions" Archived July 5, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.. SFWA. Retrieved April 2, 2013. Quote: "Effective January 2009, here are the new rules for the Nebula Awards."  ^ Keilman, John (June 7, 2012). "Waukegan's landscape, values never left Bradbury". Chicago Tribune. Retrieved July 15, 2012.  ^ Distinguished Contribution to American Letters Award with his acceptance speech.  ^ "Ray Bradbury Receives Star on Hollywood Walk of Fame". Press release, office of Mayor Hahn, April 1, 2002. Retrieved April 2, 2013.  ^ "Woodbury mourns the passing of Ray Bradbury". Woodbury university. June 6, 2012. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012. Retrieved July 15, 2012.  ^ "Lifetime honors: National medal of the arts". National Endowment for the arts. Archived from the original on March 2, 2010. Retrieved July 15, 2012.  ^  "Bradbury, Ray" Archived October 16, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.. The Locus Index to SF Awards: Index to Literary Nominees. Locus Publications. Retrieved March 22, 2013.  ^  "Bram Stoker Award for Lifetime Achievement" Archived May 9, 2013, at the Wayback Machine.. Horror Writers Association (HWA). Retrieved April 6, 2013.  ^  "Damon Knight Memorial Grand Master" Archived July 1, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.. Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America (SFWA). Retrieved April 2, 2013.  ^ "First Fandom: First Fandom hall of fame award". First Fandom. Archived from the original on July 23, 2012. Retrieved July 15, 2012.  ^  "Science Fiction and Fantasy Hall of Fame" Archived May 21, 2013, at the Wayback Machine.. Mid American Science Fiction and Fantasy Conventions, Inc. Retrieved March 22, 2013. This was the official website of the hall of fame to 2004.  ^ "The 2007 Pulitzer Prize Winners: Special Awards and Citations". The Pulitzer Prizes. Retrieved November 2, 2013.  ^ "The US conference of mayors, 80th annual meeting: Honoring the life of Ray Bradbury". The US conference of mayors. June 13–16, 2012. Archived from the original on February 2, 2013. Retrieved July 15, 2012.  ^ Wilson, Stephen M. (2008). "2008 SFPA Grandmaster". The Science Fiction Poetry Association. SFPA. Retrieved August 3, 2008.  ^ "The Eaton Awards". Eaton Science Fiction Conference. University of California, Riverside (ucr.edu). Retrieved April 2, 2013.  ^ "College history: Honorary degree recipients". Columbia University. 2011. Archived from the original on October 23, 2010. Retrieved July 15, 2012.  ^ MSNBC Staff (August 6, 2012). "Video from rover looks down on Mars during landing". MSNBC. Retrieved October 7, 2012.  ^ Young, Monica (August 7, 2012). "Watch Curiosity Descend onto Mars". SkyandTelescope.com. Archived from the original on December 9, 2012. Retrieved October 7, 2012.  ^ Brown, Dwayne; Cole, Steve; Webster, Guy; Agle, D.C. (August 22, 2012). "NASA Mars Rover Begins Driving at Bradbury Landing". NASA. Retrieved August 22, 2012.  ^ "Mars Curiosity Rover Twitter feed".  ^ Bob Pool, Intersection near L.A. library named for Ray Bradbury, Los Angeles Times, December 6, 2012  ^ "Oscars 'In Memoriam' 2013: Full list". MSN.  Sources   - Anderson, James Arthur (2013). The Illustrated Ray Bradbury. Wildside Press. ISBN 978-1-4794-0007-2. - Albright, Donn (1990). Bradbury Bits & Pieces: The Ray Bradbury Bibliography, 1974–88. Starmont House. ISBN 1-55742-151-X. - Eller, Jonathan R.; Touponce, William F. (2004). Ray Bradbury: The Life of Fiction. Kent State University Press. ISBN 0-87338-779-1. - Eller, Jonathan R. (2011). Becoming Ray Bradbury. Urbana, IL: University of Illinois Press. ISBN 0-252-03629-8. - Nolan, William F. (1975). The Ray Bradbury Companion: A Life and Career History, Photolog, and Comprehensive Checklist of Writings. Gale Research. ISBN 0-8103-0930-0. - Paradowski, Robert J.; Rhynes, Martha E. (2001). Ray Bradbury. Salem Press. - Reid, Robin Anne (2000). Ray Bradbury: A Critical Companion. Greenwood Press. ISBN 0-313-30901-9. - Tuck, Donald H. (1974). The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction and Fantasy. Chicago: Advent. pp. 61–63. ISBN 0-911682-20-1. - Weist, Jerry (2002). Bradbury, an Illustrated Life: A Journey to Far Metaphor. William Morrow and Company. ISBN 0-06-001182-3. - Weller, Sam (2005). The Bradbury Chronicles: The Life of Ray Bradbury. HarperCollins. ISBN 0-06-054581-X. External links  Ray Bradburyat Wikipedia's sister projects    - Media from Wikimedia Commons  - Quotations from Wikiquote  - Texts from Wikisource  - Textbooks from Wikibooks  - Data from Wikidata     - Official website - Center for Ray Bradbury Studies, at Indiana University - Works by or about Ray Bradbury at Internet Archive - Works by Ray Bradbury at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks)  - "Ray Bradbury collected news and commentary". The New York Times. - Ray Bradbury on IMDb  - Ray Bradbury at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database - Works by Ray Bradbury at Project Gutenberg - Works by Ray Bradbury at Open Library  PeoplePublishers and editors   - Johnny Craig - Colin Dawkins - Al Feldstein - Max Gaines - William Gaines - Harvey Kurtzman - John Severin Writers   - Robert Bernstein - Otto Binder - Ray Bradbury - Johnny Craig - Colin Dawkins - Jerry DeFuccio - Harlan Ellison - Al Feldstein - Gardner Fox - Daniel Keyes - Harvey Kurtzman - Jack Mendelsohn - Jack Oleck - John Putnam - John Severin - Carl Wessler Artists   - Dave Berg - Sid Check - Gene Colan - Johnny Craig - Reed Crandall - Jack Davis - Will Elder - Ric Estrada - George Evans - Al Feldstein - Frank Frazetta - Harry Harrison - Russ Heath - Graham Ingels - Jack Kamen - Roy Krenkel - Bernard Krigstein - Joe Kubert - Harvey Kurtzman - Howard Larsen - Sheldon Moldoff - Ben Oda - Joe Orlando - Fred Peters - George Roussos - John Severin - Marie Severin - Alex Toth - Angelo Torres - Ed Wheelan - Al Williamson - Basil Wolverton - Tatjana Wood - Wally Wood See also   - Russ Cochran - Comics Code Authority - EC Archives - Grant Geissman - David Hajdu - Maria Reidelbach - Bhob Stewart - Lyle Stuart - Fred von Bernewitz  MediaLiterature   - Comics - Magazines - Novels - Publishers - Short stories Stage   - Opera - Theatre Film   - Film history - Films - India Television   - TV shows - Australasian - British - Canadian - European - Japanese Anime - Japanese Live-action - U.S. ThemesApplied   - Astroengineering - AI takeover - Artificial intelligence - Megastructure Space stations and habitats - Space stations and habitats - Mind uploading - Nanotechnology - Organ transplantation - Prosthetics - Robots - Self-replicating machines - Simulated consciousness - Simulated reality - Space warfare - Terraforming Formal   - Fermi paradox - Grandfather paradox - Time travel Life   - Biological warfare - Evolution - Extraterrestrials List - List - Genetic engineering - Gender - Group mind - Parasites - Sex and sexuality - Symbiosis Physical   - Faster-than-light Heim theory Hyperdrive Hyperspace Jump drive Warp drive Einstein–Rosen bridge - Heim theory - Hyperdrive - Hyperspace - Jump drive - Warp drive - Einstein–Rosen bridge - Earth - The multiverse - Parallel universes - Planets Social   - Ancient astronauts - Alien invasion - Alien language - Black - Cyborgs - Evil corporation - Feminist - First contact - Frankenstein complex - Galactic empire - LGBT - Libertarian - Political ideas - Religious ideas - Sci horror - Transhumanism - Uplifting - World government - Xenoarchaeology Related topics   - Alternate history - Afrofuturism - Fantasy - Science fantasy - Spy-Fi - Fictional technology - Future - Future history - Horror - Magic realism - Mecha - Rubber science - Science and technology studies - Speculative fiction - Superhero - Supernatural - Weird - Techno-thriller - Technology and society - Utopian and dystopian fiction    - Category - Portal    - Speculative fiction portal - Horror fiction portal - Biography portal
Raymond E. Feist (/faɪst/; born Raymond Elias Gonzales III; 1945) is an American fantasy fiction author who wrote The Riftwar Cycle, a series of novels and short stories. His books have been translated into multiple languages and have sold over 15 million copies.
Rebecca Solnit (born June 24, 1961)[citation needed] is an American writer. She has written on a variety of subjects, including the environment, politics, place, and art. Solnit is a contributing editor at Harper's Magazine, where bi-monthly she writes the magazine's "Easy Chair" essay.
Regina Barreca (born 1957) is an American academic and humorist. She is a Board of Trustees Distinguished Professor of English literature and feminist theory at the University of Connecticut and winner of UConn's highest award for excellence in teaching. She is the author of ten books and editor of 11 others. Her weekly articles from The Hartford Courant are syndicated internationally by the Tribune Co. and her work has appeared in The New York Times, The Independent of London, The Chronicle of Higher Education, Cosmopolitan, and The Harvard Business Review. She is a member of the New York Friar's Club and an honoree of the Connecticut Women's Hall of Fame. Her latest book, "If You Lean In, Will Men Just Look Down Your Blouse?" Questions and Thoughts for Loud, Smart Women in Turbulent Times, was published by St. Martin's Press in the spring of 2016 and was an ELLE Reader's Prize selection that June.
Remy de Gourmont (4 April 1858 – 27 September 1915) was a French Symbolist poet, novelist, and influential critic. He was widely read in his era, and an important influence on Blaise Cendrars and Georges Bataille. The spelling Rémy de Gourmont is incorrect, albeit common and used by Ezra Pound in translations of his work.
René Descartes (/deɪˈkɑːrt/, UK also /ˈdeɪkɑːrt/; French: [ʁəne dekaʁt]; Latinized: Renatus Cartesius; adjectival form: "Cartesian"; 31 March 1596 – 11 February 1650) was a French philosopher, mathematician, and scientist. A native of the Kingdom of France, he spent about 20 years (1629–49) of his life in the Dutch Republic after serving for a while in the Dutch States Army of Maurice of Nassau, Prince of Orange and the Stadtholder of the United Provinces. He is generally considered one of the most notable intellectual figures of the Dutch Golden Age.     Descartes' Meditations on First Philosophy (1641) continues to be a standard text at most university philosophy departments. Descartes' influence in mathematics is equally apparent; the Cartesian coordinate system (see below) was named after him. He is credited as the father of analytical geometry, the bridge between algebra and geometry, used in the discovery of infinitesimal calculus and analysis. Descartes was also one of the key figures in the Scientific Revolution.   Descartes refused to accept the authority of previous philosophers. He frequently set his views apart from those of his predecessors. In the opening section of the Passions of the Soul, an early modern treatise on emotions, Descartes goes so far as to assert that he will write on this topic "as if no one had written on these matters before". His best known philosophical statement is "I think, therefore I am" (French: Je pense, donc je suis; Latin: Ego cogito, ergo sum), found in Discourse on the Method (1637; written in French and Latin) and Principles of Philosophy (1644; written in Latin).   Many elements of his philosophy have precedents in late Aristotelianism, the revived Stoicism of the 16th century, or in earlier philosophers like Augustine. In his natural philosophy, he differed from the schools on two major points: first, he rejected the splitting of corporeal substance into matter and form; second, he rejected any appeal to final ends, divine or natural, in explaining natural phenomena. In his theology, he insists on the absolute freedom of God's act of creation.   Descartes laid the foundation for 17th-century continental rationalism, later advocated by Spinoza and Leibniz, and opposed by the empiricist school of thought consisting of Hobbes, Locke, Berkeley, and Hume. Leibniz, Spinoza, and Descartes were all well-versed in mathematics as well as philosophy, and Descartes and Leibniz contributed greatly to science as well.
Renee Ahdieh (born July 7, 1983) is an American author of Young Adult Fantasy, best known for her New York Times best selling series The Wrath and the Dawn duology.
René Karl Wilhelm Johann Josef Maria Rilke (4 December 1875 – 29 December 1926), better known as Rainer Maria Rilke (German: [ˈʁaɪnɐ maˈʁiːa ˈʁɪlkə]), was a Bohemian-Austrian poet and novelist. He is "widely recognized as one of the most lyrically intense German-language poets". He wrote both verse and highly lyrical prose. Several critics have described Rilke's work as inherently "mystical". His writings include one novel, several collections of poetry and several volumes of correspondence in which he invokes haunting images that focus on the difficulty of communion with the ineffable in an age of disbelief, solitude and profound anxiety. These deeply existential themes tend to position him as a transitional figure between the traditional and the modernist writers.   Rilke travelled extensively throughout Europe (including Russia, Spain, Germany, France and Italy), and in his later years settled in Switzerland—settings that were key to the genesis and inspiration for many of his poems. While Rilke is most known for his contributions to German literature, over 400 poems were originally written in French and dedicated to the canton of Valais in Switzerland. Among English-language readers, his best-known works include the poetry collections Duino Elegies (Duineser Elegien) and Sonnets to Orpheus (Die Sonette an Orpheus), the semi-autobiographical novel The Notebooks of Malte Laurids Brigge (Die Aufzeichnungen des Malte Laurids Brigge), and a collection of ten letters that was published after his death under the title Letters to a Young Poet (Briefe an einen jungen Dichter). In the later 20th century, his work found new audiences through use by New Age theologians and self-help authors and frequent quotations by television programs, books and motion pictures. In the United States, Rilke remains among the more popular, best-selling poets.
Ricardo Eliécer Neftalí Reyes Basoalto (12 July 1904 – 23 September 1973), better known by his pen name and, later, legal name Pablo Neruda (/nəˈruːdə/; Spanish: [ˈpaβlo neˈɾuða]), was a Chilean poet-diplomat and politician. Neruda became known as a poet when he was 13 years old, and wrote in a variety of styles, including surrealist poems, historical epics, overtly political manifestos, a prose autobiography, and passionate love poems such as the ones in his collection Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair (1924). He won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1971.   Neruda occupied many diplomatic positions in various countries during his lifetime and served a term as a Senator for the Chilean Communist Party. When President Gabriel González Videla outlawed communism in Chile in 1948, a warrant was issued for Neruda's arrest. Friends hid him for months in the basement of a house in the port city of Valparaíso; Neruda escaped through a mountain pass near Maihue Lake into Argentina. Years later, Neruda was a close advisor to Chile's socialist President Salvador Allende. When Neruda returned to Chile after his Nobel Prize acceptance speech, Allende invited him to read at the Estadio Nacional before 70,000 people.   Neruda was hospitalised with cancer at the time of the coup d'état led by Augusto Pinochet that overthrew Allende's government, but returned home after a few days when he suspected a doctor of injecting him with an unknown substance for the purpose of murdering him on Pinochet's orders. Neruda died in his house in Isla Negra on 23 September 1973, just hours after leaving the hospital. Although it was long reported that he died of heart failure, the Interior Ministry of the Chilean government issued a statement in 2015 acknowledging a Ministry document indicating the government's official position that "it was clearly possible and highly likely" that Neruda was killed as a result of "the intervention of third parties". Pinochet, backed by elements of the armed forces, denied permission for Neruda's funeral to be made a public event, but thousands of grieving Chileans disobeyed the curfew and crowded the streets.   Neruda is often considered the national poet of Chile, and his works have been popular and influential worldwide. The Colombian novelist Gabriel García Márquez once called him "the greatest poet of the 20th century in any language", and Harold Bloom included Neruda as one of the 26 writers central to the Western tradition in his book The Western Canon.
Richard Baxter (12 November 1615 – 8 December 1691) was an English Puritan church leader, poet, hymnodist, theologian, and controversialist. Dean Stanley called him "the chief of English Protestant Schoolmen". After some false starts, he made his reputation by his ministry at Kidderminster, and at around the same time began a long and prolific career as theological writer. After the Restoration he refused preferment, while retaining a non-separatist Presbyterian approach, and became one of the most influential leaders of the Nonconformists, spending time in prison. His views on justification and sanctification are somewhat controversial and unconventional within the Calvinist tradition because his teachings seem, to some, to undermine salvation by faith, in that he emphasizes the necessity of repentance and faithfulness.
Richard Buckminster Fuller (/ˈfʊlər/; July 12, 1895 – July 1, 1983) was an American architect, systems theorist, author, designer, inventor and futurist.   Fuller published more than 30 books, coining or popularizing terms such as "Spaceship Earth", "Dymaxion" house/car, ephemeralization, synergetic, and "tensegrity". He also developed numerous inventions, mainly architectural designs, and popularized the widely known geodesic dome. Carbon molecules known as fullerenes were later named by scientists for their structural and mathematical resemblance to geodesic spheres.   Fuller was the second World President of Mensa from 1974 to 1983.   Guinea Pig B:   I AM NOW CLOSE TO 88 and I am confident that the only thing important about me is that I am an average healthy human. I am also a living case history of a thoroughly documented, half-century, search-and-research project designed to discover what, if anything, an unknown, moneyless individual, with a dependent wife and newborn child, might be able to do effectively on behalf of all humanity that could not be accomplished by great nations, great religions or private enterprise, no matter how rich or powerfully armed.   —Bucky Fuller, 1983
Richard Dafydd Vivian Llewellyn Lloyd (8 December 1906 – 30 November 1983), known by his pen name Richard Llewellyn (Welsh: [ɬəˈwɛlɪn]), was a British novelist.
Richard Francis Xavier Manning, known as Brennan Manning (April 27, 1934 – April 12, 2013) was an American author, laicized priest, and public speaker. He is best known for his bestselling book The Ragamuffin Gospel.
Richard Matheson at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database (ISFDB). Retrieved April 13, 2013. Select a title to see its linked publication history and general information. Select a particular edition (title) for more data at that level, such as a front cover image or linked contents. ^ a b c d "Richard Matheson Biography: Author, Screenwriter (1926–2013)". Biography.com (FYI and A&E Networks). Archived from the original on September 13, 2015. Retrieved September 29, 2015.  ^ a b c d e f g h Hawtree, Christopher (June 25, 2013). "Richard Matheson obituary". London: Guardian.co.uk. Retrieved June 26, 2013.  ^ Conlon, Christopher "Southern California Sorcerers", , October 1999. Retrieved October 31, 2012.  ^ a b Weber, Bruce (June 25, 2013). "Richard matheson, Writer of Haunted Science Fictionand Horror, Dies at 87". New York Times. Retrieved June 26, 2013.  ^  Alexander, Chris (March 2011). "The Legend of Richard Matheson". Fangoria. New York City: The Brooklyn Company, Inc. (301): 47. ... the things Serling said at the beginning and the end, in the wraparounds, which I wrote. I wrote all the wraparounds to my Twilight Zone episodes.  ^ What Screams May Come: A Look at the Legendary Richard Matheson.[full citation needed]  ^ Roger Ebert. Roger Ebert's Movie Home Companion, 1990 Edition. Andrews and McMeel, 1990, p. 419.  ^  "Richard Matheson (1926–2013". Locus Publications. June 24, 2013. Retrieved June 25, 2013.  ^  Kellogg, Carolyn (June 24, 2013). "'I Am Legend' Author Richard Matheson Has Died at 87". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved June 24, 2013.  ^  "Richard Matheson: Sci-Fi Author Dies Aged 87". Sky News. June 25, 2013. Retrieved June 25, 2013.  ^ a b  "Matheson, Richard". The Locus Index to SF Awards: Index of Literary Nominees. Locus Publications. Retrieved April 13, 2013.  ^  "Science Fiction Hall of Fame". Experience Music Project and Science Fiction Museum and Hall of Fame. Archived from the original on March 25, 2010. EMP SFM is proud to announce the 2010 Hall of Fame inductees: ...  ^ "Award Winners and Nominees". World Fantasy Convention. Retrieved February 4, 2011.  ^ "39th annual Saturn Awards to be dedicated to the memory of author Richard Matheson". Hitfix.com. Retrieved June 26, 2013.  ^ Deborah Christie, Sarah Juliet Lauro, ed. (2011). Better Off Dead: The Evolution of the Zombie as Post-Human. Fordham Univ Press. p. 169. ISBN 0-8232-3447-9, 9780823234479.  ^ Entertainment Weekly. August 7, 2009. Missing or empty |title= (help)[full citation needed]  ^ "I am Legend writer Richard Matheson dies aged 87". LondonEvening Standard. Retrieved June 26, 2013.  ^ Olsen, Mark (June 24, 2013). "'I Am Legend' writer Richard Matheson's legacy of smart sci-fi". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved June 26, 2013.  ^ "Richard Matheson dies:Tributes paid to I am Legend, Twilight Zone Icon". Digital Spy. Retrieved June 26, 2013.  ^ Steel: And Other Stories. Product Description.[full citation needed]  External links   - Richard Matheson at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database - Matheson biography at tabula-rasa.info - Richard Matheson featured on AMC-TV's Sci-Fi Department webshow - Richard Matheson on IMDb  - Richard Matheson at Memory Alpha (a Star Trek wiki) - Richard Matheson Archive of American Television Interview - "Richard Matheson biography". Science Fiction and Fantasy Hall of Fame.
Richard Paul Evans (born October 11, 1962) is an American author, best known for writing The Christmas Box and, more recently, the Michael Vey series.
Richard Rohr OFM (born 1943) is an American author, spiritual writer, and Franciscan friar based in Albuquerque, New Mexico. He was ordained to the priesthood in the Roman Catholic Church in 1970. He has been called "one of the most popular spirituality authors and speakers in the world."
Richard Siken is an American poet, painter, and filmmaker. He is the author of the collection Crush (Yale University Press, 2005), which won the Yale Series of Younger Poets Competition in 2004. His second book of poems, War of the Foxes, was released from Copper Canyon Press in 2015.
Richelle Mead (born November 12, 1976) is an American fantasy author. She is known for the Georgina Kincaid series, Vampire Academy, Bloodlines and the Dark Swan series.
Rita Mae Brown (born November 28, 1944) is an American writer, activist, and feminist. She is best known for her first novel Rubyfruit Jungle. Brown is also a mystery writer and screenwriter.
Roald Dahl (/ˈroʊ.əld ˈdɑːl/; 13 September 1916 – 23 November 1990) was a British novelist, short story writer, poet, screenwriter, and fighter pilot. His books have sold more than 250 million copies worldwide.   Born in Wales to Norwegian immigrant parents, Dahl served in the Royal Air Force during the Second World War. He became a flying ace and intelligence officer, rising to the rank of acting wing commander. He rose to prominence as a writer in the 1940s with works for both children and adults, and he became one of the world's best-selling authors. He has been referred to as "one of the greatest storytellers for children of the 20th century". His awards for contribution to literature include the 1983 World Fantasy Award for Life Achievement, and the British Book Awards' Children's Author of the Year in 1990. In 2008, The Times placed Dahl 16th on its list of "The 50 greatest British writers since 1945".   Dahl's short stories are known for their unexpected endings, and his children's books for their unsentimental, macabre, often darkly comic mood, featuring villainous adult enemies of the child characters. His books champion the kindhearted, and feature an underlying warm sentiment. Dahl's works for children include James and the Giant Peach, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Matilda, The Witches, Fantastic Mr Fox, The BFG, The Twits and George's Marvellous Medicine. His adult works include Tales of the Unexpected.
Robert Anton Wilson (born Robert Edward Wilson; January 18, 1932 – January 11, 2007) was an American author, novelist, essayist, editor, playwright, poet, futurist, and self-described agnostic mystic. Recognized by Discordianism as an Episkopos, Pope, and saint, Wilson helped publicize the group through his writings and interviews.   Wilson described his work as an "attempt to break down conditioned associations, to look at the world in a new way, with many models recognized as models or maps, and no one model elevated to the truth". His goal being "to try to get people into a state of generalized agnosticism, not agnosticism about God alone but agnosticism about everything."
Robert Browning (7 May 1812 – 12 December 1889) was an English poet and playwright whose mastery of the dramatic monologue made him one of the foremost Victorian poets. His poems are known for their irony, characterization, dark humour, social commentary, historical settings, and challenging vocabulary and syntax.   Browning's early career began promisingly, but collapsed. The long poems Pauline and Paracelsus received some acclaim, but in 1840 the difficult Sordello, which was seen as wilfully obscure, brought his poetry into disrepute. His reputation took more than a decade to recover, during which time he moved away from the Shelleyan forms of his early period and developed a more personal style.   In 1846, Browning married the older poet Elizabeth Barrett, and went to live in Italy. By the time of her death in 1861, he had published the crucial collection Men and Women. The collection Dramatis Personae and the book-length epic poem The Ring and the Book followed, and made him a leading British poet. He continued to write prolifically, but his reputation today rests largely on the poetry he wrote in this middle period.   When Browning died in 1889, he was regarded as a sage and philosopher-poet who through his writing had made contributions to Victorian social and political discourse. Unusually for a poet, societies for the study of his work were founded while he was still alive. Such Browning Societies remained common in Britain and the United States until the early 20th century.
Robert Ferrigno (born 1947) is an American author of crime novels and of speculative fiction. Eight books published between 1990 and 2004 were additions to the detective and thriller genres, while the post 9/11 'Assassin trilogy' is set in an imagined United States dominated by Islam.   In February 2009 he was nominated as a finalist for an Edgar Award and has been reviewed by the LA Times and the New York Times for his book Prayers for the Assassin.  Novels   - The Horse Latitudes (1990), his first - Cheshire Moon (1993) - Dead Man's Dance (1995) - Dead Silent (1996) - Heartbreaker (1999) - Flinch (2001) - Scavenger Hunt (2003) - The Wake-Up (2004) - Prayers for the Assassin (2006) - Sins of the Assassin (2008) - Heart of the Assassin (2009) - The Girl who cried wolf (2013) References   1. ^ James Flint (18 March 2006). "Jihad Cola". The Guardian. Retrieved 13 March 2018.  2. ^ Mary Ann Gwinn (2 February 2009). "Local author Robert Ferrigno finalist for Edgar award". The Seattle Times. Retrieved 13 March 2018.  3. ^ Tim Rutten (15 February 2006). "A vision of Al Qaeda as victor". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved 13 March 2018.  4. ^ Janet Maslin (16 February 2006). "There's Been a Big Change in Islamic States of America". New York Times. Retrieved 13 March 2018.  External links   - Author's Website - Author profile at Simon & Schuster - Interview in January Magazine       This article about a novelist of the United States born in the 1940s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
Robert Louis Stevenson (13 November 1850 – 3 December 1894) was a Scottish novelist, poet, essayist, musician and travel writer. His most famous works are Treasure Island, Kidnapped, Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, and A Child's Garden of Verses. He was a literary celebrity during his lifetime, and now ranks as the 26th most translated author in the world. His works have been admired by many other writers, including Jorge Luis Borges, Bertolt Brecht, Marcel Proust, Arthur Conan Doyle, Henry James, Cesare Pavese, Emilio Salgari, Ernest Hemingway, Rudyard Kipling, Jack London, Vladimir Nabokov, J. M. Barrie, and G. K. Chesterton, who said that Stevenson "seemed to pick the right word up on the point of his pen, like a man playing spillikins".
Robert McKee (born 1941) is an author, lecturer and story consultant who is widely known for his popular "Story Seminar", which he developed when he was a professor at the University of Southern California. McKee is the author of Story: Substance, Structure, Style and the Principles of Screenwriting, Dialogue: the Art of Verbal Action for Stage, Page and Screen and Storynomics: Story-Driven Marketing in the Post-Advertising World. McKee also has the blog and online writers' resource "Storylogue".   Robert McKee’s “Story Seminars” have been held around the globe including Boston, Moscow, Amsterdam, Beijing, Mumbai, Paris, Rio de Janeiro, Sydney and yearly in New York City, Los Angeles, and London. The 3-day seminar teaches writers the principles of storytelling. McKee's one-day "Genre Seminars" teach writers the conventions of different styles of storytelling including thriller, comedy, horror, love story, action story, and writing for television.   Rather than teaching story as a "mechanical" form, McKee gained notoriety for teaching story principles, allowing writers for theater, novels, film and television freedom to apply them as they wish provided the story ultimately “works”.   After consulting on business storytelling for various multinational companies including Microsoft, Nike, Hewlett-Packard, Time Warner, and Siemens, in the fall of 2013 McKee launched a seminar for the business community in Los Angeles, New York City, Beijing, and Malta. In 2018, McKee partnered with digital marketer and Skyword CEO Tom Gerace to write Storynomics: Story-Driven Marketing in the Post-Advertising World. Storynomics, and the accompanying seminar, instructs leaders, managers and marketers how to use story in strategic management, brand management, and business communications.
Robert Nesta Marley, OM (6 February 1945 – 11 May 1981) was a Jamaican singer-songwriter who became an international musical and cultural icon, blending mostly reggae, ska, and rocksteady in his compositions. He started in 1963 with the group the Wailers and forged a distinctive songwriting and vocal style that became popular with audiences worldwide. The Wailers released some of the earliest reggae records with producer Lee "Scratch" Perry.   The Wailers disbanded in 1974, and Marley pursued a solo career upon his relocation to England which culminated in the release of the album Exodus in 1977, which established his worldwide reputation and elevated his status as one of the world's best-selling artists of all time, with sales of more than 75 million records. Exodus stayed on the British album charts for 56 consecutive weeks and included the UK hit singles "Exodus", "Waiting in Vain", "Jamming", and "One Love". In 1978, he released the album Kaya, which included the hit singles "Is This Love" and "Satisfy My Soul". The greatest hits album Legend was released in 1984, three years after Marley died. It subsequently became the best-selling reggae album of all time.   Marley died on 11 May 1981 in Miami at age 36 of melanoma. He was a committed Rastafari who infused his music with a sense of spirituality.:242 He is credited with popularising reggae music around the world and served as a symbol of Jamaican culture and identity. He has become a global symbol and has inspired a significant merchandise industry.
Roberto Bolaño Ávalos (Spanish: [roˈβeɾto βoˈlaɲo ˈaβalos] (; 28 April 1953 – 15 July 2003) was a Chilean novelist, short-story writer, poet and essayist. In 1999, Bolaño won the Rómulo Gallegos Prize for his novel Los detectives salvajes (The Savage Detectives), and in 2008 he was posthumously awarded the National Book Critics Circle Award for Fiction for his novel 2666, which was described by board member Marcela Valdes as a "work so rich and dazzling that it will surely draw readers and scholars for ages". The New York Times described him as "the most significant Latin American literary voice of his generation".
Robert Penn Warren (April 24, 1905 – September 15, 1989) was an American poet, novelist, and literary critic and was one of the founders of New Criticism. He was also a charter member of the Fellowship of Southern Writers. He founded the literary journal The Southern Review with Cleanth Brooks in 1935. He received the 1947 Pulitzer Prize for the Novel for his novel All the King's Men (1946) and the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry in 1958 and 1979. He is the only person to have won Pulitzer Prizes for both fiction and poetry.
Robin Sloan is an American author. His debut novel, Mr. Penumbra's 24-Hour Bookstore, is about a laid-off Silicon Valley tech worker who begins working at a dusty bookstore with very few customers, only to start discovering one secret after another. The mysterious old books, along with the store's owner, lead to a 500‑year‑old secret society.
Robyn Carr is the #1 New York Times bestselling author of almost fifty novels, including the critically acclaimed Virgin River novels.
Roger Zelazny at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database (ISFDB). Retrieved 2013-04-08. Select a title to see its linked publication history and general information. Select a particular edition (title) for more data at that level, such as a front cover image or linked contents. ^ a b  "Zelazny, Roger" Archived 2012-10-16 at the Wayback Machine.. The Locus Index to SF Awards: Index of Literary Nominees. Locus Publications. Retrieved 2011-09-28.  ^ a b c d e f g h i j "...And Call Me Roger": The Literary Life of Roger Zelazny, Part 1, by Christopher S. Kovacs. In: The Collected Stories of Roger Zelazny, Volume 1: Threshold, NESFA Press, 2009.  ^ a b c d e "'...And Call Me Roger': The Literary Life of Roger Zelazny", Part 3, by Christopher S. Kovacs. In: The Collected Stories of Roger Zelazny, Volume 3: This Mortal Mountain, NESFA Press, 2009.  ^ a b c "...And Call Me Roger": The Literary Life of Roger Zelazny, Part 6, by Christopher S. Kovacs. In: The Collected Stories of Roger Zelazny, Volume 6: The Road to Amber, NESFA Press, 2009.  ^ "...And Call Me Roger": The Literary Life of Roger Zelazny, Part 5, by Christopher S. Kovacs. In: The Collected Stories of Roger Zelazny, Volume 5: Nine Black Doves, NESFA Press, 2009.  ^ "...And Call Me Roger": The Literary Life of Roger Zelazny, Part 4, by Christopher S. Kovacs. In: The Collected Stories of Roger Zelazny, Volume 4: Last Exit to Babylon, NESFA Press, 2009.  ^ "...And Call Me Roger"": The Literary Life of Roger Zelazny, Part 2, by Christopher S. Kovacs. In: The Collected Stories of Roger Zelazny, Volume 2: Power & Light, NESFA Press, 2009.  ^ a b "Something Else Like ... Roger Zelazny" by Jo Walton, Tor.com, November 11, 2012.  ^ Budrys, Algis (October 1967). "Galaxy Bookshelf". Galaxy Science Fiction. pp. 188–194.  ^ "Of Meetings and Partings" by Neil Gaiman, introduction to This Mortal Mountain: Volume 3 of The Collected Stories of Roger Zelazny, NESFA Press, edited by David G. Grubbs, Christopher S. Kovacs, and Ann Crimmins, 2009, page 12.  ^ Lord of the Fantastic: Stories in Honor of Roger Zelazny edited by Martin H. Greenberg, Avon Eos, 1998.  ^ "1966 Award Winners & Nominees". Worlds Without End. Retrieved 2009-05-17.  ^ "1968 Award Winners & Nominees". Worlds Without End. Retrieved 2009-05-17.  ^ a b "1986 Award Winners & Nominees". Worlds Without End. Retrieved 2009-05-17.  ^ Martens, Koen (May 1988). "Seven new species and two new subspecies of Sclerocypris SARS, 1924 from Africa, with new records of some other Megalocypridinids (Crustacea, Ostracoda)". Hydrobiologia. Springer Netherlands. 162 (3): 243–273. doi:10.1007/BF00016672. Retrieved 2008-12-26.  ^ "1987 Award Winners & Nominees". Worlds Without End. Retrieved 2009-05-17.  ^ "1988 Award Winners & Nominees". Worlds Without End. Retrieved 2009-05-17.  Further reading   - Yoke, Carl (1979). Roger Zelazny: Starmont Reader's Guide 2. West Linn, Oregon: Starmont House. Republished as Yoke, Carl B. (2007). Roger Zelazny. Borgo Press. ISBN 978-0916732134. - Republished as Yoke, Carl B. (2007). Roger Zelazny. Borgo Press. ISBN 978-0916732134. Biographies and literary critiques   - Kovacs, Christopher S. (February 2009). "'...And Call Me Roger': The Early Literary Life of Roger Zelazny". The New York Review of Science Fiction #246. 21 (6): 1, 8–19. Essay-length excerpt of full biography published in Collected Stories (next entry). - Kovacs, Christopher S. (2009). "'...And Call Me Roger': The Literary Life of Roger Zelazny". The Collected Stories of Roger Zelazny. 1–6. Boston: NESFA Press. - Krulik, Theodore (1986). Roger Zelazny. New York: Ungar Publishing. - Lindskold, Jane M. (1993). Roger Zelazny. Twayne's United States Authors Series. New York: Twayne Publishers. ISBN 978-0805739534. - Yoke, Carl (1979). Roger Zelazny and Andre Norton: Proponents of Individualism. Ohio Authors. Columbus, Ohio: State University of Ohio. Bibliographies   - Kovacs, Christopher S. (2010). The Ides of Octember: A Pictorial Bibliography of Roger Zelazny. The Collected Stories of Roger Zelazny. Boston: NESFA Press. ISBN 978-1886778924. - Kovacs, Christopher S. (2015). The Ides of Octember: A Pictorial Bibliography of Roger Zelazny. The Collected Stories of Roger Zelazny (2nd revised ed.). Boston: NESFA Press. ISBN 978-1-61037-309-8. - Levack, Daniel J. H. (1983). Amber Dreams: A Roger Zelazny Bibliography. San Francisco: Greenwood. ISBN 0313276781. - Sanders, Joseph (1980). Roger Zelazny: A Primary and Secondary Bibliography. Boston: G. K. Hall and Co. ISBN 0816180814. - Stephens, Christopher P. (1991). A Checklist of Roger Zelazny. New York: Ultramarine Press. ISBN 0893662208. - Stephensen-Payne, Phil (1993). Roger Zelazny, Master of Amber: A Working Bibliography. Galactic Central Bibliographies Series #38. Borgo Press. ISBN 0809547368. External links Bibliography    - Roger Zelazny at the Internet Book List - Roger Zelazny at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database - Roger Zelazny at Library of Congress Authorities, with 81 catalog records Other    - Roger Zelazny at the Locus Index to SF Awards - The Annotated Amber—explanations of some allusions - Finding aid to the Roger Zelazny papers at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County library
Rohinton Mistry CM (born 3 July 1952) is an Indian-born Canadian writer. He was awarded the Neustadt International Prize for Literature in 2012.
Rosamund Lupton (née Orde-Powlett), is a British author. She studied literature at Cambridge University. She is known for her novels Sister and Afterwards. She lives in London with her husband and two children.
Roshani Chokshi (born February 14, 1991) is an American novelist, the author of the young adult novels The Star Touched Queen (2016) and A Crown of Wishes (2017).   The Star-Touched Queen was a finalist for the 2017 Locus Award for Best First Novel and for the 2017 Andre Norton Award.   Her children's novel, Aru Shah and the End of Time, was published in 2018.   Chokshi attended Emory University. She has Filipino and Indian heritage.  Works   - The Star-Touched Queen - A Crown of Wishes - Star Touched Stories - Aru Shah and the End of Time - The Gilded Wolves References    1. ^ Nadkarni, Samira (7 November 2016). "The Star-Touched Queen by Roshani Chokshi". Strange Horizons. Retrieved 19 October 2017.  2. ^ "A Crown of Wishes". Kirkus Reviews. 21 December 2016. Retrieved 19 October 2017.  3. ^ El-Mohtar, Amal (30 April 2016). "Stars Tell The Story Of This Fairy Tale-Inspired 'Queen' (book review"". National Public Radio. Retrieved 5 September 2018.  4. ^ "2017 Locus Awards Winners". Locus Mag. 24 June 2017. Retrieved 19 October 2017.  5. ^ "Nebula Awards 2017". science fiction awards database. Retrieved 19 October 2017.  6. ^ "Rick Riordan Imprint Acquires First Three Titles". Publishers Weekly. 25 April 2017. Retrieved 19 October 2017.  7. ^ Bond, Gwenda (11 April 2018). "How Roshani Chokshi came to write a new series for Rick Riordan". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved 5 September 2018.  8. ^ Chainani, Soman (27 March 2018). "Young Heroines Who Are Saviors, but Not Saints (book review)". New York Times. Retrieved 5 September 2018.  9. ^ "NAW Interview with Roshani Chokshi". New Asian Writing. 30 August 2014. Retrieved 19 October 2017.  10. ^ Bruce, Leah (26 April 2016). "Roshani Chokshi: The comfort and curse of destiny". BookPage. Retrieved 19 October 2017.  11. ^ Charaipotra, Sona (6 April 2017). "'A Crown Of Wishes': Author Roshani Chokshi Is Writing For Second-Generation Kids Like Her". Bustle. Retrieved 19 October 2017.  12. ^ Ho, Olivia (11 July 2017). "Mixed-race authors write fantasies with Asian and Middle Eastern heroes". The Straits Times. Retrieved 5 September 2018.  External links   - Roshani Chokshi's official site - AMA on Reddit       This American novelist article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
Roxane Gay (born October 15, 1974) is an American writer, professor, editor, and commentator. She is the author of The New York Times best-selling essay collection Bad Feminist (2014), as well as the short story collection Ayiti (2011), the novel An Untamed State (2014), the short story collection Difficult Women (2017), and the memoir Hunger (2017).   Gay is a contributing opinion writer at The New York Times, founder of Tiny Hardcore Press, essays editor for The Rumpus, and co-editor of PANK, a nonprofit literary arts collective, and worked at Eastern Illinois University and Purdue University.
Rupi Kaur (born October 4, 1992) (Punjabi: ਰੂਪੀ ਕੌਰ) is an Indian-born Canadian poet, writer, illustrator, and performer. She immigrated to Canada as a child and has since settled in Toronto. Her debut book, a collection of poetry and prose titled Milk and Honey, was published in 2014; it sold over 2.5 million copies worldwide and spent more than a year on The New York Times Best Seller list. Her second book, The Sun and Her Flowers, was published in 2017.
Ruta Sepetys (also known as Rūta Šepetys; born November 19, 1967) is a Lithuanian-American writer of historical fiction. As an author, she is a #1 New York Times bestseller, international bestseller, and winner of the Carnegie Medal.   She is a Rockefeller Foundation Bellagio Fellow and the first American writer of young adult literature to speak at the European Parliament. Her work is published in over fifty countries and thirty languages and is currently in development for two films.
Ruth Ozeki is an American-Canadian author, filmmaker and Zen Buddhist priest. Her books and films, including the novels My Year of Meats (1998), All Over Creation (2003), and A Tale for the Time Being (2013), seek to integrate personal narrative and social issues, and deal with themes relating to science, technology, environmental politics, race, religion, war and global popular culture. Her novels have been translated into over thirty languages. She teaches creative writing at Smith College where she is the Grace Jarcho Ross 1933 Professor of Humanities in the Department of English Language and Literature.
Sabaa Tahir is a Pakistani-American young-adult fiction writer, who is best known for her 2015 New York Times bestselling novel An Ember in the Ashes, as well as her 2016 novel A Torch Against the Night. She was formerly a Washington Post editor who has published her recent work through Razorbill, an imprint of Penguin Random House.
Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev (born Mysore, 3 September 1957), often referred to as simply Sadhguru, is an Indian yogi, mystic, and author. He founded the Isha Foundation, a non-profit organization which offers Yoga programs around the world and is involved in social outreach, education and environmental initiatives. His books have appeared in The New York Times Best Seller list in multiple categories like "Health", "Religion, Spirituality and Faith", and "Advice, How-To & Miscellaneous".   Sadhguru was conferred the Padma Vibhushan civilian award by the Government of India in 2017 in recognition of his contribution to the field of spiritualism.
Saint Augustine of Hippo (/ɔːˈɡʌstɪn/; 13 November 354 – 28 August 430 AD) was a Roman African, early Christian theologian and philosopher from Numidia whose writings influenced the development of Western Christianity and Western philosophy. He was the bishop of Hippo Regius in north Africa and is viewed as one of the most important Church Fathers in Western Christianity for his writings in the Patristic Period. Among his most important works are The City of God, On Christian Doctrine and Confessions.   According to his contemporary Jerome, Augustine "established anew the ancient Faith". In his youth he was drawn to Manichaeism and later to neo-Platonism. After his baptism and conversion to Christianity in 386, Augustine developed his own approach to philosophy and theology, accommodating a variety of methods and perspectives. Believing that the grace of Christ was indispensable to human freedom, he helped formulate the doctrine of original sin and made seminal contributions to the development of just war theory. When the Western Roman Empire began to disintegrate, Augustine imagined the Church as a spiritual City of God, distinct from the material Earthly City. His thoughts profoundly influenced the medieval worldview. The segment of the Church that adhered to the concept of the Trinity as defined by the Council of Nicaea and the Council of Constantinople closely identified with Augustine's On the Trinity.   Augustine is recognized as a saint in the Catholic Church, the Eastern Christian Church, and the Anglican Communion and as a preeminent Doctor of the Church. He is also the patron of the Augustinians. His memorial is celebrated on 28 August, the day of his death. Augustine is the patron saint of brewers, printers, theologians, the alleviation of sore eyes, and a number of cities and dioceses. Many Protestants, especially Calvinists and Lutherans, consider him to be one of the theological fathers of the Protestant Reformation due to his teachings on salvation and divine grace. Protestant Reformers generally, and Martin Luther in particular, held Augustine in preeminence among early Church Fathers. Luther himself was, from 1505 to 1521, a member of the Order of the Augustinian Eremites.   In the East, his teachings are more disputed, and were notably attacked by John Romanides. But other theologians and figures of the Eastern Orthodox Church have shown significant appropriation of his writings, chiefly Georges Florovsky. The most controversial doctrine associated with him, the filioque, was rejected by the Orthodox Church. Other disputed teachings include his views on original sin, the doctrine of grace, and predestination. Nevertheless, though considered to be mistaken on some points, he is still considered a saint, and has even had influence on some Eastern Church Fathers, most notably Saint Gregory Palamas. In the Orthodox Church his feast day is celebrated on 15 June. Historian Diarmaid MacCulloch has written: "[Augustine's] impact on Western Christian thought can hardly be overstated; only his beloved example Paul of Tarsus, has been more influential, and Westerners have generally seen Paul through Augustine's eyes."
Saint Thomas Aquinas OP (/əˈkwaɪnəs/; Italian: Tommaso d'Aquino, lit. "Thomas of Aquino"; 1225 – 7 March 1274) was an Italian Dominican friar, Catholic priest, and Doctor of the Church. He was an immensely influential philosopher, theologian, and jurist in the tradition of scholasticism, within which he is also known as the Doctor Angelicus and the Doctor Communis. The name Aquinas identifies his ancestral origins in the county of Aquino in present-day Lazio, Italy.   He was the foremost classical proponent of natural theology and the father of Thomism; of which he argued that reason is found in God. His influence on Western thought is considerable, and much of modern philosophy developed or opposed his ideas, particularly in the areas of ethics, natural law, metaphysics, and political theory. Unlike many currents in the Church of the time, Thomas embraced several ideas put forward by Aristotle—whom he called "the Philosopher"—and attempted to synthesize Aristotelian philosophy with the principles of Christianity. His best-known works are the Disputed Questions on Truth (1256–59), the Summa contra Gentiles (1259–65), and the Summa Theologiae (1265–74). His commentaries on Scripture and on Aristotle also form an important part of his body of work. Furthermore, Thomas is distinguished for his eucharistic hymns, which form a part of the Church's liturgy.   The Catholic Church honors Thomas Aquinas as a saint and regards him as the model teacher for those studying for the priesthood, and indeed the highest expression of both natural reason and speculative theology. In modern times, under papal directives, the study of his works was long used as a core of the required program of study for those seeking ordination as priests or deacons, as well as for those in religious formation and for other students of the sacred disciplines (philosophy, Catholic theology, church history, liturgy, and canon law).   Thomas Aquinas is considered one of the Catholic Church's greatest theologians and philosophers. Pope Benedict XV declared: "This (Dominican) Order ... acquired new luster when the Church declared the teaching of Thomas to be her own and that Doctor, honored with the special praises of the Pontiffs, the master and patron of Catholic schools." The English philosopher Anthony Kenny considers Thomas to be "one of the dozen greatest philosophers of the western world".
Samuel Johnson (18 September 1709 [OS 7 September] – 13 December 1784), often referred to as Dr. Johnson, was an English writer who made lasting contributions to English literature as a poet, playwright, essayist, moralist, literary critic, biographer, editor and lexicographer. He was a devout Anglican and a generous philanthropist. Politically, he was a committed Tory. The Oxford Dictionary of National Biography describes Johnson as "arguably the most distinguished man of letters in English history". He is the subject of James Boswell's The Life of Samuel Johnson, described by Walter Jackson Bate as "the most famous single work of biographical art in the whole of literature".   Born in Lichfield, Staffordshire, Johnson attended Pembroke College, Oxford, for just over a year, but a lack of funds forced him to leave. After working as a teacher, he moved to London, where he began to write for The Gentleman's Magazine. His early works include the biography Life of Mr Richard Savage, the poems London and The Vanity of Human Wishes, and the play Irene.   After nine years of work, Johnson's A Dictionary of the English Language was published in 1755. It had a far-reaching effect on Modern English and has been acclaimed as "one of the greatest single achievements of scholarship". This work brought Johnson popularity and success. Until the completion of the Oxford English Dictionary 150 years later, Johnson's was the pre-eminent British dictionary. His later works included essays, an influential annotated edition of The Plays of William Shakespeare, and the widely read tale The History of Rasselas, Prince of Abissinia. In 1763, he befriended James Boswell, with whom he later travelled to Scotland; Johnson described their travels in A Journey to the Western Islands of Scotland. Towards the end of his life, he produced the massive and influential Lives of the Most Eminent English Poets, a collection of biographies and evaluations of 17th- and 18th-century poets.   Johnson was a tall and robust man. His odd gestures and tics were disconcerting to some on first meeting him. Boswell's Life, along with other biographies, documented Johnson's behaviour and mannerisms in such detail that they have informed the posthumous diagnosis of Tourette syndrome, a condition not defined or diagnosed in the 18th century. After a series of illnesses, he died on the evening of 13 December 1784, and was buried in Westminster Abbey. In the years following his death, Johnson began to be recognised as having had a lasting effect on literary criticism, and he was claimed by some to be the only truly great critic of English literature.
Samuel Langhorne Clemens (November 30, 1835 – April 21, 1910), better known by his pen name Mark Twain, was an American writer, humorist, entrepreneur, publisher, and lecturer. Among his novels are The Adventures of Tom Sawyer (1876) and its sequel, the Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (1885), the latter often called "The Great American Novel".   Twain was raised in Hannibal, Missouri, which later provided the setting for Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn. He served an apprenticeship with a printer and then worked as a typesetter, contributing articles to the newspaper of his older brother Orion Clemens. He later became a riverboat pilot on the Mississippi River before heading west to join Orion in Nevada. He referred humorously to his lack of success at mining, turning to journalism for the Virginia City Territorial Enterprise. His humorous story, "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County", was published in 1865, based on a story that he heard at Angels Hotel in Angels Camp, California, where he had spent some time as a miner. The short story brought international attention and was even translated into French. His wit and satire, in prose and in speech, earned praise from critics and peers, and he was a friend to presidents, artists, industrialists, and European royalty.   Twain earned a great deal of money from his writings and lectures, but he invested in ventures that lost most of it—notably the Paige Compositor, a mechanical typesetter that failed because of its complexity and imprecision. He filed for bankruptcy in the wake of these financial setbacks, but he eventually overcame his financial troubles with the help of Henry Huttleston Rogers. He chose to pay all his pre-bankruptcy creditors in full, even after he had no legal responsibility to do so.   Twain was born shortly after an appearance of Halley's Comet, and he predicted that he would "go out with it" as well; he died the day after the comet returned. He was lauded as the "greatest humorist this country has produced", and William Faulkner called him "the father of American literature".
Samuel Taylor Coleridge  (/ˈkoʊlərɪdʒ/; 21 October 1772 – 25 July 1834) was an English poet, literary critic, philosopher and theologian who, with his friend William Wordsworth, was a founder of the Romantic Movement in England and a member of the Lake Poets. He wrote the poems The Rime of the Ancient Mariner and "Kubla Khan", as well as the major prose work Biographia Literaria. His critical work, especially on William Shakespeare, was highly influential, and he helped introduce German idealist philosophy to English-speaking culture. Coleridge coined many familiar words and phrases, including suspension of disbelief. He had a major influence on Ralph Waldo Emerson and on American transcendentalism.   Throughout his adult life Coleridge had crippling bouts of anxiety and depression; it has been speculated that he had bipolar disorder, which had not been defined during his lifetime. He was physically unhealthy, which may have stemmed from a bout of rheumatic fever and other childhood illnesses. He was treated for these conditions with laudanum, which fostered a lifelong opium addiction.
Sarah Addison Allen (also known under the pen name Katie Gallagher) is an American and New York Times bestselling author.
Sarah Mayberry is an Australian contemporary romance author and television screenwriter. She has written several novels for Harlequin Mills and Boon, as well as scripts for the television soap opera Neighbours. She was a storyliner for the New Zealand medical drama Shortland Street and co-created the teen drama series Karaoke High with Kirsty McKenzie. Mayberry and her works have been nominated for several awards, and she won the Favourite Erotic Romance accolade at the Australian Romance Readers Awards in 2015.
Sarah Rees Brennan (born 21 September 1983) is an Irish writer best known for young adult fantasy fiction. Her first novel, The Demon's Lexicon, was released June 2009 by Simon & Schuster. Brennan's books are bestsellers in the UK.
Sarah Waters (born 21 July 1966) is a Welsh novelist. She is best known for her novels set in Victorian society and featuring lesbian protagonists, such as Tipping the Velvet and Fingersmith.
Sara Sheridan (born 7 June 1968) is a Scottish activist and writer who works in a variety of genres, though predominately in historical fiction. She is the creator of the Mirabelle Bevan mysteries.
Sara Teasdale (August 8, 1884 – January 29, 1933) was an American lyric poet. She was born Sarah Trevor Teasdale in St. Louis, Missouri, and used the name Sara Teasdale Filsinger after her marriage in 1914.
Satprem (30 October 1923 – 9 April 2007) was a French author and a disciple of Mirra Alfassa.
Saul Bellow (born Solomon Bellows; 10 June 1915 – 5 April 2005) was a Canadian-American writer. For his literary work, Bellow was awarded the Pulitzer Prize, the Nobel Prize for Literature, and the National Medal of Arts. He is the only writer to win the National Book Award for Fiction three times and he received the National Book Foundation's lifetime Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters in 1990.   In the words of the Swedish Nobel Committee, his writing exhibited "the mixture of rich picaresque novel and subtle analysis of our culture, of entertaining adventure, drastic and tragic episodes in quick succession interspersed with philosophic conversation, all developed by a commentator with a witty tongue and penetrating insight into the outer and inner complications that drive us to act, or prevent us from acting, and that can be called the dilemma of our age." His best-known works include The Adventures of Augie March, Henderson the Rain King, Herzog, Mr. Sammler's Planet, Seize the Day, Humboldt's Gift and Ravelstein. Bellow was widely regarded as one of the 20th century's greatest authors.   Bellow said that of all his characters, Eugene Henderson, of Henderson the Rain King, was the one most like himself. Bellow grew up as an insolent slum kid, a "thick-necked" rowdy, and an immigrant from Quebec. As Christopher Hitchens describes it, Bellow's fiction and principal characters reflect his own yearning for transcendence, a battle "to overcome not just ghetto conditions but also ghetto psychoses." Bellow's protagonists, in one shape or another, all wrestle with what Albert Corde, the dean in "The Dean's December," called "the big-scale insanities of the 20th century." This transcendence of the "unutterably dismal" (a phrase from Dangling Man) is achieved, if it can be achieved at all, through a "ferocious assimilation of learning" (Hitchens) and an emphasis on nobility.
Scott Lynch (born April 2, 1978) is an American fantasy author who wrote the Gentleman Bastard series of novels. His first novel, The Lies of Locke Lamora, was purchased by Orion Books in August 2004 and published in June 2006 under the Gollancz imprint in the United Kingdom and under the Bantam imprint in the United States. The next two novels in the series, Red Seas Under Red Skies and The Republic of Thieves, were published in 2007 and 2013, respectively.
Seanan McGuire (pronounced SHAWN-in) (born January 5, 1978, in Martinez, California) is an American author and filker. In 2010, she was awarded the John W. Campbell Award for Best New Writer by the 2010 World Science Fiction Convention. Her novella "Every Heart A Doorway" received the 2016 Nebula Award for Best Novella, the 2017 Hugo Award for Best Novella, and the 2017 Locus Award for Best Novella.   Writing under the pseudonym Mira Grant, she published the political thriller/zombie series Newsflesh, comprising the books Feed (2010), Deadline (2011), Blackout (2012, nominated for a 2013 Hugo Award for Best Novel), and Feedback (2016). Additionally, in 2017, The Wine in Dreams was published as part of the novella collection Star Wars: Canto Bight, a tie-in to the 2017 film Star Wars: The Last Jedi.   In 2013, McGuire received a record five Hugo nominations in total, two for works as Grant and the other three under her own name.
Sebastian Barry (born 5 July 1955) is an Irish playwright, novelist and poet. He is noted for his dense literary writing style and is considered one of Ireland's finest writers.   Barry's literary career began in poetry before he began writing plays and novels. While he was once considered a playwright who wrote occasional novels, in recent years his fiction writing has been more successful than his work in the theatre.     He has twice been shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize for his novels A Long Long Way (2005) and The Secret Scripture (2008), the latter of which won the 2008 Costa Book of the Year and the James Tait Black Memorial Prize. His 2011 novel On Canaan's Side was longlisted for the Booker. In January 2017, Barry was awarded the Costa Book of the Year prize for Days Without End, hence becoming the first novelist to win the prestigious prize twice.
Sebastian Junger (born January 17, 1962) is an American journalist, author and filmmaker. He is noted for his book The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea (1997), which became a bestseller; and for his documentary films Restrepo (2010) and Korengal (2014), which won awards. He also wrote the book War (2010).
Seneca the Younger (c. 4 BC – AD 65), fully Lucius Annaeus Seneca and also known simply as Seneca (/ˈsɛnɪkə/), was a Roman Stoic philosopher, statesman, dramatist, and—in one work—satirist of the Silver Age of Latin literature.   Seneca was born in Córdoba in Hispania, and raised in Rome, where he was trained in rhetoric and philosophy. He was a tutor and later advisor to emperor Nero. He was forced to take his own life for alleged complicity in the Pisonian conspiracy to assassinate Nero, in which he was likely to have been innocent. His father was Seneca the Elder, his elder brother was Lucius Junius Gallio Annaeanus, and his nephew was the poet Lucan. His stoic and calm suicide has become the subject of numerous paintings. As a writer Seneca is known for his philosophical works, and for his plays, which are all tragedies. His philosophical writings include a dozen philosophical essays, and one hundred and twenty-four letters dealing with moral issues. As a tragedian, he is best known for his Medea and Thyestes.
Seth Grahame-Smith (born Seth Jared Greenberg; January 4, 1976) is an American novelist, film director, film producer, and screenwriter. He is best known as the author of The New York Times best-selling novels Pride and Prejudice and Zombies and Abraham Lincoln, Vampire Hunter, both of which have been adapted as feature films. Grahame-Smith is also the co-creator, head writer and executive producer of The Hard Times of RJ Berger, a scripted television comedy appearing on MTV. In collaboration with David Katzenberg, his partner in Katzsmith Productions, Grahame-Smith is currently developing a number of projects for television and film.
Shannon Hale (née Shannon Bryner; born January 26, 1974 in Salt Lake City, Utah) is an American author primarily of young adult fantasy, including the Newbery Honor book Princess Academy, She has also co-written with her husband, Dean.
Sharon Kay Penman (born August 13, 1945) is an American historical novelist, published in the UK as Sharon Penman. She is best known for the Welsh Princes trilogy and the Plantagenet series. In addition, she has written four medieval mysteries, the first of which, The Queen's Man, was a finalist in 1996 for the Best First Mystery Edgar Award. Her novels and mysteries are set in England, France, and Wales, and are about English and Welsh royalty during the Middle Ages. The Sunne in Splendour, her first book, is a stand-alone novel about King Richard III of England and the Wars of the Roses. When the manuscript was stolen she started again and rewrote the book.   Her work is generally well received, with the more recent novels reaching the New York Times Bestseller List. Critics have praised her meticulous research of settings and events presented in her fiction, as well as the characterizations.
Sharon Salzberg (born August 5, 1952) is a New York Times Best selling author and teacher of Buddhist meditation practices in the West. In 1974, she co-founded the Insight Meditation Society at Barre, Massachusetts with Jack Kornfield and Joseph Goldstein. Her emphasis is on vipassanā (insight) and mettā (loving-kindness) methods, and has been leading meditation retreats around the world for over three decades. All of these methods have their origins in the Theravada Buddhist tradition. Her books include Lovingkindness: The Revolutionary Art of Happiness (1995), A Heart as Wide as the World (1999), Real Happiness - The Power of Meditation: A 28-Day Program (2010), which was on The New York Times Best Seller list in 2011, and the follow-up Real Happiness at Work (2013).
Sherrilyn Kenyon (born 1965 in Columbus, Georgia, USA) is a bestselling US writer. Under her own name, she writes both urban fantasy and paranormal romance. She is best known for her Dark Hunter series. Under the pseudonym Kinley MacGregor she wrote historicals also with paranormal elements. Kenyon's novels have an "international following" with over 70 million copies in print in over 100 countries. Under both names, her books have appeared at the top of the New York Times, Publishers Weekly, and USA Today lists, and they are frequent bestsellers in Germany, Australia, and the United Kingdom.
Sherry Turkle (born June 18, 1948) is the Abby Rockefeller Mauzé Professor of the Social Studies of Science and Technology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. She obtained a BA in Social Studies and later a Ph.D. in Sociology and Personality Psychology at Harvard University. She now focuses her research on psychoanalysis and human-technology interaction. She has written several books focusing on the psychology of human relationships with technology, especially in the realm of how people relate to computational objects.   In The Second Self, originally published in 1984, Turkle writes about how computers are not tools as much as they are a part of our social and psychological lives. “‘Technology,’ she writes, ‘catalyzes changes not only in what we do but in how we think.’” She goes on using Jean Piaget's psychology discourse to discuss how children learn about computers and how this affects their minds. The Second Self was received well by critics and was praised for being “a very thorough and ambitious study.”   In Life on the Screen, Turkle discusses how emerging technology, specifically computers, affect the way we think and see ourselves as humans. She presents to us the different ways in which computers affect us, and how it has led us to the now prevalent use of "cyberspace." Turkle suggests that assuming different personal identities in a MUD (i.e. computer fantasy game) may be therapeutic. She also considers the problems that arise when using MUDs. Turkle discusses what she calls women's "non-linear" approach to the technology, calling it "soft mastery" and "bricolage" (as opposed to the "hard mastery" of linear, abstract thinking and computer programming). She discusses problems that arise when children pose as adults online.   Turkle also explores the psychological and societal impact of such "relational artifacts" as social robots, and how these and other technologies are changing attitudes about human life and living things generally. One result may be a devaluation of authentic experience in a relationship. Together with Seymour Papert she wrote the influential paper "Epistemological Pluralism and the Revaluation of the Concrete." Turkle has written numerous articles on psychoanalysis and culture and on the "subjective side" of people's relationships with technology, especially computers. She is engaged in active study of robots, digital pets, and simulated creatures, particularly those designed for children and the elderly as well as in a study of mobile cellular technologies. Profiles of Turkle have appeared in such publications as The New York Times, Scientific American, and Wired Magazine. She is a featured media commentator on the effects of technology for CNN, NBC, ABC, and NPR, including appearances on such programs as Nightline and 20/20.   Turkle has begun to assess the adverse effects of rapidly advancing technology on human social behavior. Alone Together: Why We Expect More from Technology and Less from Each Other was published in 2011 and when discussing the topic she speaks about the need to limit the use of popular technological devices because of these adverse effects.
Shinkichi Takahashi (高橋 新吉, Takahashi Shinkichi, 1901 – 1987) was a Japanese poet. He was one of the pioneers of Dadaism in Japan. According to Makoto Ueda, he is also the only major Zen poet of modern Japanese literature.   He was born on Shikoku.   His Collected Poems won the Japanese Ministry of Education Prize for Art.  Works   - Dadaist Shinkichi's Poetry 1923 - Triumph of the Sparrow: Zen Poems of Shinkichi Takahashi Translated by Lucien Stryk and Takashi Ikemoto. Grove Press, 2000 - After Images: Zen Poems by Shinkichi Takahashi Translated by Lucien Stryk and Takashi Ikemoto. Doubleday, Anchor Books, 1972 - Seascape. (verse) Notes    1. ^ "Takahashi Shinkichi". Sekai daihyakka jiten (in Japanese). Hitachi Solutions Business. Retrieved 3 May 2014.  2. ^ Makoto Ueda Modern Japanese Poets and the Nature of Literature p.335 Stanford University Press, 1983  3. ^ a b Zen Poetry: Let the Spring Breeze Enter edited by Lucien Stryk and Takashi Ikemoto. Grove Press, 1977         This article about a Japanese poet is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
Shunryu Suzuki (鈴木 俊隆 Suzuki Shunryū, dharma name Shōgaku Shunryū 祥岳俊隆, often called Suzuki Roshi; May 18, 1904 – December 4, 1971) was a Sōtō Zen monk and teacher who helped popularize Zen Buddhism in the United States, and is renowned for founding the first Buddhist monastery outside Asia (Tassajara Zen Mountain Center). Suzuki founded San Francisco Zen Center which, along with its affiliate temples, comprises one of the most influential Zen organizations in the United States. A book of his teachings, Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind, is one of the most popular books on Zen and Buddhism in the West.
Siddhartha Mukherjee (born 21 July 1970) is an Indian-American physician, biologist, oncologist, and author. He is best known for his 2010 book, The Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of Cancer that won notable literary prizes including the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction, and Guardian First Book Award, among others. The book was listed in the "All-Time 100 Nonfiction Books" (the 100 most influential books of the last century) by Time magazine in 2011. His 2016 book The Gene: An Intimate History made it to #1 on The New York Times Best Seller list, and was among The New York Times 100 best books of 2016, and a finalist for the Wellcome Trust Prize and the Royal Society Prize for Science Books.   After completing school education in India, Mukherjee studied biology at Stanford University, obtained a D.Phil. from University of Oxford as a Rhodes scholar, and an M.D. from Harvard University. He joined the faculty of medicine at the Columbia University Medical Center in New York City in 2009. As of 2018, he is an Associate Professor of Medicine in the Division of Hematology and Oncology.   Featured in the Time 100 list of most influential people, Mukherjee writes for The New Yorker and is a columnist in The New York Times. He is described as part of a select group of doctor-writers (such as Oliver Sacks and Atul Gawande) who have "transformed the public discourse on human health", and allowed a generation of readers a rare and intimate glimpse into the life of science and medicine. His research concerns the physiology of cancer cells, immunological therapy for blood cancers, and the discovery of bone- and cartilage-forming stem cells in the vertebrate skeleton.   The Government of India conferred him its fourth highest civilian award, the Padma Shri, in 2014.
Sigmund Freud (/frɔɪd/ FROYD; German: [ˈziːkmʊnt ˈfʁɔʏt]; born Sigismund Schlomo Freud; 6 May 1856 – 23 September 1939) was an Austrian neurologist and the founder of psychoanalysis, a clinical method for treating psychopathology through dialogue between a patient and a psychoanalyst.   Freud was born to Galician Jewish parents in the Moravian town of Freiberg, in the Austrian Empire. He qualified as a doctor of medicine in 1881 at the University of Vienna. Upon completing his habilitation in 1885, he was appointed a docent in neuropathology and became an affiliated professor in 1902. Freud lived and worked in Vienna, having set up his clinical practice there in 1886. In 1938 Freud left Austria to escape the Nazis. He died in exile in the United Kingdom in 1939.   In creating psychoanalysis, Freud developed therapeutic techniques such as the use of free association and discovered transference, establishing its central role in the analytic process. Freud's redefinition of sexuality to include its infantile forms led him to formulate the Oedipus complex as the central tenet of psychoanalytical theory. His analysis of dreams as wish-fulfillments provided him with models for the clinical analysis of symptom formation and the underlying mechanisms of repression. On this basis Freud elaborated his theory of the unconscious and went on to develop a model of psychic structure comprising id, ego and super-ego. Freud postulated the existence of libido, a sexualised energy with which mental processes and structures are invested and which generates erotic attachments, and a death drive, the source of compulsive repetition, hate, aggression and neurotic guilt. In his later works, Freud developed a wide-ranging interpretation and critique of religion and culture.   Though in overall decline as a diagnostic and clinical practice, psychoanalysis remains influential within psychology, psychiatry, and psychotherapy, and across the humanities. It thus continues to generate extensive and highly contested debate with regard to its therapeutic efficacy, its scientific status, and whether it advances or is detrimental to the feminist cause. Nonetheless, Freud's work has suffused contemporary Western thought and popular culture. In the words of W.H. Auden's 1940 poetic tribute, by the time of Freud's death, he had become "a whole climate of opinion / under whom we conduct our different lives."
Simone Elkeles (born April 24, 1970), is an American author known for the teen romance Perfect Chemistry trilogy and How To Ruin trilogy. She is a New York Times Bestselling young adult author. Simone has won the 2010 RITA Award for Best Young Adult Romance from the Romance Writers of America for her book Perfect Chemistry. The sequel to Perfect Chemistry, Rules of Attraction, appeared on USA Today Best Sellers List and The New York Times Best Sellers List.
Simone Lucie Ernestine Marie Bertrand de Beauvoir (/də ˈboʊˌvwɑːr/; French: [simɔn də bovwaʁ] (; 9 January 1908 – 14 April 1986) was a French writer, intellectual, existentialist philosopher, political activist, feminist and social theorist. Though she did not consider herself a philosopher, she had a significant influence on both feminist existentialism and feminist theory.   De Beauvoir wrote novels, essays, biographies, autobiography and monographs on philosophy, politics and social issues. She was known for her 1949 treatise The Second Sex, a detailed analysis of women's oppression and a foundational tract of contemporary feminism; and for her novels, including She Came to Stay and The Mandarins. She was also known for her lifelong relationship with French philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre.
Simon Van Booy is an Anglo-American writer, currently living in the United States. His short story collection, Love Begins in Winter, won the 2009 Frank O'Connor International Short Story Award.
Sir Ahmed Salman Rushdie FRSL (born 19 June 1947) is a British Indian novelist and essayist. His second novel, Midnight's Children (1981), won the Booker Prize in 1981 and was deemed to be "the best novel of all winners" on two separate occasions, marking the 25th and the 40th anniversary of the prize. Much of his fiction is set on the Indian subcontinent. He combines magical realism with historical fiction; his work is concerned with the many connections, disruptions, and migrations between Eastern and Western civilizations.   His fourth novel, The Satanic Verses (1988), was the subject of a major controversy, provoking protests from Muslims in several countries. Death threats were made against him, including a fatwā calling for his assassination issued by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the Supreme Leader of Iran, on 14 February 1989. The British government put Rushdie under police protection.   In 1983 Rushdie was elected a fellow of the Royal Society of Literature, the UK's senior literary organisation. He was appointed Commandeur de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres of France in January 1999. In June 2007, Queen Elizabeth II knighted him for his services to literature. In 2008, The Times ranked him thirteenth on its list of the 50 greatest British writers since 1945.   Since 2000, Rushdie has lived in the United States. He was named Distinguished Writer in Residence at the Arthur L. Carter Journalism Institute of New York University in 2015. Earlier, he taught at Emory University. He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Letters. In 2012, he published Joseph Anton: A Memoir, an account of his life in the wake of the controversy over The Satanic Verses.
Sir Alfred Joseph Hitchcock KBE (13 August 1899 – 29 April 1980) was an English film director and producer, widely regarded as one of the most influential filmmakers in the history of cinema. Known as "the Master of Suspense", he directed over 50 feature films in a career spanning six decades, becoming as well known as any of his actors thanks to his many interviews, his cameo roles in most of his films, and his hosting and producing of the television anthology Alfred Hitchcock Presents (1955–1965).   Born in Leytonstone, Essex, Hitchcock entered the film industry in 1919 as a title card designer after training as a technical clerk and copy writer for a telegraph-cable company. He made his directorial debut with the silent film The Pleasure Garden (1925). His first successful film, The Lodger: A Story of the London Fog (1927), helped to shape the thriller genre, while his 1929 film, Blackmail, was the first British "talkie". Two of his 1930s thrillers, The 39 Steps (1935) and The Lady Vanishes (1938), are ranked among the greatest British films of the 20th century.   By 1939 Hitchcock was a filmmaker of international importance, and film producer David O. Selznick persuaded him to move to Hollywood. A string of successful films followed, including Rebecca (1940), Foreign Correspondent (1940), Shadow of a Doubt (1943), and The Paradine Case (1947); Rebecca was nominated for 11 Oscars and won the Academy Award for Best Picture. His 53 films have grossed over US$223.3 million worldwide and garnered a total of 46 Oscar nominations and six wins.   The "Hitchcockian" style includes the use of camera movement to mimic a person's gaze, thereby turning viewers into voyeurs, and framing shots to maximise anxiety and fear. The film critic Robin Wood wrote that the meaning of a Hitchcock film "is there in the method, in the progression from shot to shot. A Hitchcock film is an organism, with the whole implied in every detail and every detail related to the whole." By 1960 Hitchcock had directed four films often ranked among the greatest of all time: Rear Window (1954), Vertigo (1958), North by Northwest (1959), and Psycho (1960). In 2012 Vertigo replaced Orson Welles's Citizen Kane (1941) as the British Film Institute's greatest film ever made. By 2018 eight of his films had been selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry, including his personal favourite, Shadow of a Doubt (1943). He received the AFI Life Achievement Award in 1979 and was knighted in December that year, four months before he died.
Sir Isaac Newton FRS PRS (25 December 1642 – 20 March 1726/27) was an English mathematician, physicist, astronomer, theologian, and author (described in his own day as a "natural philosopher") who is widely recognised as one of the most influential scientists of all time, and a key figure in the scientific revolution. His book Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica ("Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy"), first published in 1687, laid the foundations of classical mechanics. Newton also made seminal contributions to optics, and shares credit with Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz for developing the infinitesimal calculus.   In Principia, Newton formulated the laws of motion and universal gravitation that formed the dominant scientific viewpoint until it was superseded by the theory of relativity. Newton used his mathematical description of gravity to prove Kepler's laws of planetary motion, account for tides, the trajectories of comets, the precession of the equinoxes and other phenomena, eradicating doubt about the Solar System's heliocentricity. He demonstrated that the motion of objects on Earth and celestial bodies could be accounted for by the same principles. Newton's inference that the Earth is an oblate spheroid was later confirmed by the geodetic measurements of Maupertuis, La Condamine, and others, convincing most European scientists of the superiority of Newtonian mechanics over earlier systems.   Newton built the first practical reflecting telescope and developed a sophisticated theory of colour based on the observation that a prism separates white light into the colours of the visible spectrum. His work on light was collected in his highly influential book Opticks, published in 1704. He also formulated an empirical law of cooling, made the first theoretical calculation of the speed of sound, and introduced the notion of a Newtonian fluid. In addition to his work on calculus, as a mathematician Newton contributed to the study of power series, generalised the binomial theorem to non-integer exponents, developed a method for approximating the roots of a function, and classified most of the cubic plane curves.   Newton was a fellow of Trinity College and the second Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge. He was a devout, but unorthodox, Christian who privately rejected the doctrine of the Trinity. Unusually for a member of the Cambridge faculty of the day, he refused to take holy orders in the Church of England. Beyond his work on the mathematical sciences, Newton dedicated much of his time to the study of alchemy and biblical chronology, but most of his work in those areas remained unpublished until long after his death. Politically and personally tied to the Whig party, Newton served two brief terms as Member of Parliament for the University of Cambridge, in 1689–90 and 1701–02. He was knighted by Queen Anne in 1705 and spent the last three decades of his life in London, serving as Warden (1696–1700) and Master (1700–1727) of the Royal Mint, as well as president of the Royal Society (1703–1727).
Sir Kazuo Ishiguro, OBE FRSA FRSL (born 8 November 1954) is a Nobel Prize-winning British novelist, screenwriter, and short-story writer. He was born in Nagasaki, Japan; his family moved to the UK in 1960 when he was five. Ishiguro graduated from the University of Kent with a bachelor's degree in English and Philosophy in 1978 and gained his master's from the University of East Anglia's creative writing course in 1980.   Ishiguro is considered one of the most celebrated contemporary fiction authors in the English-speaking world, having received four Man Booker Prize nominations, and having won the award in 1989, for his novel The Remains of the Day. Ishiguro's 2005 novel, Never Let Me Go, was named by Time as the best novel of the year, and was included in the magazine's list of the 100 best English-language novels published between 1923 and 2005. Growing up in a Japanese family in the UK was crucial to his writing, as it enabled him, he says, to see things from a different perspective to that of many of his British peers. His seventh novel, The Buried Giant, was published in 2015.   In 2017, the Swedish Academy awarded Ishiguro the Nobel Prize in Literature, describing him in its citation as a writer "who, in novels of great emotional force, has uncovered the abyss beneath our illusory sense of connection with the world". Ishiguro was knighted in the 2018 Queen's Birthday Honours List.
Sir Philip Pullman, CBE, FRSL (born 19 October 1946), is an English novelist. He is the author of several best-selling books, including the fantasy trilogy His Dark Materials and the fictionalised biography of Jesus, The Good Man Jesus and the Scoundrel Christ. In 2008, The Times named Pullman one of the "50 greatest British writers since 1945". In a 2004 poll for the BBC, Pullman was named the eleventh most influential person in British culture.   The first book of Pullman's His Dark Materials trilogy, Northern Lights, won the 1995 Carnegie Medal from the Library Association, recognising the year's outstanding English-language children's book. For the 70th anniversary of the Medal it was named one of the top ten winning works by a panel, composing the ballot for a public election of the all-time favourite. It won the public vote from that shortlist and was thus named the all-time "Carnegie of Carnegies" in June 2007. It was adapted as a film under its US title, The Golden Compass.
Sir Tom Stoppard OM CBE FRSL (born Tomáš Straussler; 3 July 1937) is a Czech-born British playwright and screenwriter. He has written prolifically for TV, radio, film and stage, finding prominence with plays such as Arcadia, The Coast of Utopia, Every Good Boy Deserves Favour, Professional Foul, The Real Thing, The Invention of Love, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead. He co-wrote the screenplays for Brazil, The Russia House, and Shakespeare in Love, and has received an Academy Award and four Tony Awards. His work covers the themes of human rights, censorship and political freedom, often delving into the deeper philosophical thematics of society. Stoppard has been a key playwright of the National Theatre and is one of the most internationally performed dramatists of his generation. In 2008, The Daily Telegraph ranked him number 11 in their list of the "100 most powerful people in British culture".   Born in Czechoslovakia, Stoppard left as a child refugee, fleeing imminent Nazi occupation. He settled with his family in Britain after the war, in 1946, having spent the three years prior (1943–1946) in a boarding school in Darjeeling in the Indian Himalayas. After being educated at schools in Nottingham and Yorkshire, Stoppard became a journalist, a drama critic and then, in 1960, a playwright.
Sir Walter Scott, 1st Baronet FRSE (15 August 1771 – 21 September 1832) was a Scottish historical novelist, poet, playwright and historian. Many of his works remain classics of both English-language literature and of Scottish literature. Famous titles include Ivanhoe, Rob Roy, Old Mortality, The Lady of the Lake, Waverley, The Heart of Midlothian and The Bride of Lammermoor.   Although primarily remembered for his extensive literary works and his political engagement, Scott was an advocate, judge and legal administrator by profession, and throughout his career combined his writing and editing work with his daily occupation as Clerk of Session and Sheriff-Depute of Selkirkshire.   A prominent member of the Tory establishment in Edinburgh, Scott was an active member of the Highland Society, served a long term as President of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (1820–32) and was a Vice President of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland (1827-1829).   As Encyclopædia Britannica argues: "Scott gathered the disparate strands of contemporary novel-writing techniques into his own hands and harnessed them to his deep interest in Scottish history and his knowledge of antiquarian lore. The technique of the omniscient narrator and the use of regional speech, localized settings, sophisticated character delineation, and romantic themes treated in a realistic manner were all combined by him into virtually a new literary form, the historical novel. His influence on other European and American novelists was immediate and profound, and though interest in some of his books declined somewhat in the 20th century, his reputation remains secure."
Sivananda Saraswati (or Swami Sivananda; 8 September 1887 – 14 July 1963) was a Hindu spiritual teacher and a proponent of Yoga and Vedanta. Sivananda was born Kuppuswami in Pattamadai, in the Tirunelveli district of Tamil Nadu. He studied medicine and served in British Malaya as a physician for several years before taking up monasticism. He lived most of his life near Muni Ki Reti, Rishikesh.   He was the founder of the Divine Life Society (DLS) in 1936, Yoga-Vedanta Forest Academy (1948) and author of over 200 books on yoga, Vedanta, and a variety of subjects. He established Sivananda Ashram, the headquarters of the DLS, on the bank of the Ganges at Sivanandanagar, 3 kilometres (1.9 mi) from Rishikesh.   Sivananda Yoga, the yoga form propagated by his disciple Vishnudevananda, is now spread in many parts of the world through Sivananda Yoga Vedanta Centres. These centres are not affiliated with Sivananda's ashrams, which are run by the Divine Life Society.
Slavoj Žižek (/ˈslɑːvɔɪ ˈʒiːʒɛk/ ( SLAH-voy ZHEE-zhek; Slovene: [ˈslaʋɔj ˈʒiʒɛk]; born 21 March 1949) is a Slovenian philosopher. He is a professor at the Institute for Sociology and Philosophy at the University of Ljubljana and international director of the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities of the University of London. He works in subjects including continental philosophy, political theory, cultural studies, psychoanalysis, film criticism, Marxism, Hegelianism and theology.   In 1989, Žižek published his first English text, The Sublime Object of Ideology, in which he departed from traditional Marxist theory to develop a materialist conception of ideology that drew heavily on Lacanian psychoanalysis and Hegelian idealism. His early theoretical work became increasingly eclectic and political in the 1990s, dealing frequently in the critical analysis of disparate forms of popular culture and making him a popular figure of the academic left. A critic of capitalism, neoliberalism and political correctness, Žižek calls himself a political radical, and his work has been characterized as challenging orthodoxies of both the political right and the social-liberal universities.   Žižek's idiosyncratic style, popular academic works, frequent magazine op-eds, and critical assimilation of high and low culture have gained him international influence, controversy, criticism and a substantial audience outside academe. In 2012, Foreign Policy listed Žižek on its list of Top 100 Global Thinkers, calling him "a celebrity philosopher" while elsewhere he has been dubbed the "Elvis of cultural theory" and "the most dangerous philosopher in the West". Žižek's work was chronicled in a 2005 documentary film entitled Zizek! A scholarly journal, the International Journal of Žižek Studies, was founded to engage his work.
Sloane Crosley (born August 3, 1978) is a writer living in New York City and the author of the collections of essays, I Was Told There'd Be Cake and How Did You Get This Number. She also worked as a publicist at the Vintage Books division of Random House and as an adjunct professor in Columbia University’s Master of Fine Arts program. She graduated from Connecticut College in 2000.  Career   Crosley's collection of essays, I Was Told There'd Be Cake, was published by Riverhead Books on April 1, 2008, and became a New York Times bestseller. It was a finalist for The Thurber Prize, one of Amazon.com's best books of the year and optioned for series by HBO. Her second collection, How Did You Get This Number also became a New York Times bestseller, and was published on June 15, 2010. Her debut novel, The Clasp, was released by Farrar, Straus and Giroux in October 2015 and optioned by Universal Pictures in 2016. Her third book of essays, Look Alive Out There, was published by Farrar, Straus and Giroux in April 2018.   Crosley was a weekly columnist for The Independent in the UK and editor of The Best American Travel Writing 2011.   Crosley is a contributing editor at Vanity Fair and was the founding columnist for The New York Times "Townies" Op-Ed series, a columnist for The New York Observer Diary, a columnist for The Village Voice, a contributing editor at BlackBook Magazine and is a regular contributor to The New York Times, GQ, Elle and NPR. She has also written cover stories and features for Salon, Spin, Bon Appetit, Vogue, Esquire, Playboy, W Magazine and AFAR. She co-wrote the song "It Only Gets Much Worse" with Nate Ruess.   Crosley is co-chair of The New York Public Library's Young Lions Committee and serves on the board of Housingworks Bookstore.   In 2011, she appeared on the TV series Gossip Girl as herself and she was a regular fixture on The Late Late Show With Craig Ferguson.  References    1. ^ "Connecticut College Magazine Spring 2012".  2. ^ "Best Sellers -- Paperback Nonfiction". New York Times. Retrieved 2014-08-01.  3. ^ "Amazon page".  4. ^ "Spin the Globe".  5. ^ a b "Sloane Crosley - IMDb". IMDb. Amazon. Retrieved June 30, 2016.
Socrates (/ˈsɒkrətiːz/; Ancient Greek: Σωκρᾰ́της, translit. Sōkrátēs, [sɔːkrátɛːs]; c. 470 – 399 BC) was a classical Greek (Athenian) philosopher credited as one of the founders of Western philosophy, and as being the first moral philosopher, of the Western ethical tradition of thought. An enigmatic figure, he made no writings, and is known chiefly through the accounts of classical writers writing after his lifetime, particularly his students Plato and Xenophon. Other sources include the contemporaneous Antisthenes, Aristippus, and Aeschines of Sphettos. Aristophanes, a playwright, is the only source to have written during his lifetime.   Plato's dialogues are among the most comprehensive accounts of Socrates to survive from antiquity, though it is unclear the degree to which Socrates himself is "hidden behind his 'best disciple'". Through his portrayal in Plato's dialogues, Socrates has become renowned for his contribution to the fields of ethics and epistemology. It is this Platonic Socrates who lends his name to the concepts of Socratic irony and the Socratic method, or elenchus.
Sogyal Rinpoche (Tibetan: བསོད་རྒྱལ་, Wylie: Bsod-rgyal) (born 1947) is a Tibetan Dzogchen lama of the Nyingma tradition. Before his retirement, in the wake of abuse allegations in 2017, he had been teaching for 40 years in Europe, America, Australia and Asia. He is the founder and ex-spiritual director of Rigpa—an international network of over 100 Buddhist centres and groups in 23 countries around the world—and the author of the best-selling book The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying, which has been printed in 30 languages and 56 countries. Sogyal Rinpoche has been accused of sexual and physical assault and abuse, as well as misusing charitable funds, with allegations stretching back to the 1970s. Rigpa announced these allegations would be investigated by an outside party and a report has now been published, upholding most of the allegations. Sogyal Rinpoche has not responded to the report but has stated that "I am clear in my own mind that I have never, ever, acted towards anyone with a motive of selfish gain or harmful intent." On a previous occasion, both he and Rigpa denied allegations.
Sophocles (/ˈsɒfəkliːz/; Greek: Σοφοκλῆς Sophoklēs, pronounced [so.pʰo.klɛ̂ːs]; c. 497/6 – winter 406/5 BC) is one of three ancient Greek tragedians whose plays have survived. His first plays were written later than or contemporary with those of Aeschylus, and earlier than or contemporary with those of Euripides. Sophocles wrote over 120 plays during the course of his life, but only seven have survived in a complete form: Ajax, Antigone, Women of Trachis, Oedipus Rex, Electra, Philoctetes and Oedipus at Colonus. For almost 50 years, Sophocles was the most celebrated playwright in the dramatic competitions of the city-state of Athens that took place during the religious festivals of the Lenaea and the Dionysia. He competed in 30 competitions, won 24, and was never judged lower than second place. Aeschylus won 13 competitions, and was sometimes defeated by Sophocles, while Euripides won four competitions.   The most famous tragedies of Sophocles feature Oedipus and also Antigone: they are generally known as the Theban plays, although each play was actually a part of a different tetralogy, the other members of which are now lost. Sophocles influenced the development of drama, most importantly by adding a third actor, thereby reducing the importance of the chorus in the presentation of the plot. He also developed his characters to a greater extent than earlier playwrights such as Aeschylus.
Søren Aabye Kierkegaard (/ˈsɒrən ˈkɪərkəɡɑːrd/ SORR-ən KEER-kə-gard; Danish: [sɶːɐn ˈkiɐ̯ɡəɡɒːˀ] (; 5 May 1813 – 11 November 1855) was a Danish philosopher, theologian, poet, social critic and religious author who is widely considered to be the first existentialist philosopher. He wrote critical texts on organized religion, Christendom, morality, ethics, psychology, and the philosophy of religion, displaying a fondness for metaphor, irony and parables. Much of his philosophical work deals with the issues of how one lives as a "single individual", giving priority to concrete human reality over abstract thinking and highlighting the importance of personal choice and commitment. He was against literary critics who defined idealist intellectuals and philosophers of his time, and thought that Swedenborg, Hegel, Fichte, Schelling, Schlegel and Hans Christian Andersen were all "understood" far too quickly by "scholars".   Kierkegaard's theological work focuses on Christian ethics, the institution of the Church, the differences between purely objective proofs of Christianity, the infinite qualitative distinction between man and God, and the individual's subjective relationship to the God-Man Jesus the Christ, which came through faith. Much of his work deals with Christian love. He was extremely critical of the practice of Christianity as a state religion, primarily that of the Church of Denmark. His psychological work explored the emotions and feelings of individuals when faced with life choices.   Kierkegaard's early work was written under the various pseudonyms that he used to present distinctive viewpoints and to interact with each other in complex dialogue. He explored particularly complex problems from different viewpoints, each under a different pseudonym. He wrote many Upbuilding Discourses under his own name and dedicated them to the "single individual" who might want to discover the meaning of his works. Notably, he wrote: "Science and scholarship want to teach that becoming objective is the way. Christianity teaches that the way is to become subjective, to become a subject." While scientists can learn about the world by observation, Kierkegaard emphatically denied that observation could reveal the inner workings of the world of the spirit.   Some of Kierkegaard's key ideas include the concept of "subjective and objective truths", the knight of faith, the recollection and repetition dichotomy, angst, the infinite qualitative distinction, faith as a passion, and the three stages on life's way. Kierkegaard wrote in Danish and the reception of his work was initially limited to Scandinavia, but by the turn of the 20th century his writings were translated into French, German, and other major European languages. By the mid-20th century, his thought exerted a substantial influence on philosophy, theology, and Western culture.
SpaceX Falcon Heavy rocket blasts Elon Musk's personal Tesla into solar orbit   In 2001, Musk conceptualized Mars Oasis, a project to land a miniature experimental greenhouse on Mars, containing food crops growing on Martian regolith, in an attempt to regain public interest in space exploration. In October 2001, Musk travelled to Moscow with Jim Cantrell (an aerospace supplies fixer), and Adeo Ressi (his best friend from college), to buy refurbished Dnepr Intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) that could send the envisioned payloads into space. The group met with companies such as NPO Lavochkin and Kosmotras; however, according to Cantrell, Musk was seen as a novice and was consequently spat on by one of the Russian chief designers, and the group returned to the United States empty-handed. In February 2002, the group returned to Russia to look for three ICBMs, bringing along Mike Griffin. Griffin had worked for the CIA's venture capital arm, In-Q-Tel, as well as NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and was just leaving Orbital Sciences, a maker of satellites and spacecraft. The group met again with Kosmotras, and were offered one rocket for US$8 million; however, this was seen by Musk as too expensive; Musk consequently stormed out of the meeting. On the flight back from Moscow, Musk realized that he could start a company that could build the affordable rockets he needed. According to early Tesla and SpaceX investor Steve Jurvetson, Musk calculated that the raw materials for building a rocket actually were only 3 percent of the sales price of a rocket at the time. It was concluded that theoretically, by applying vertical integration and the modular approach from software engineering, SpaceX could cut launch price by a factor of ten and still enjoy a 70-percent gross margin. Ultimately, Musk ended up founding SpaceX with the long-term goal of creating a true spacefaring civilization.   Musk and President Barack Obama at the Falcon 9 launch site in 2010   With US$100 million of his early fortune, Musk founded Space Exploration Technologies, or SpaceX, in May 2002. Musk is chief executive officer (CEO) and chief technology officer (CTO) of the Hawthorne, California-based company. SpaceX develops and manufactures space launch vehicles with a focus on advancing the state of rocket technology. The company's first two launch vehicles are the Falcon 1 and Falcon 9 rockets (a nod to Star Wars' Millennium Falcon), and its first spacecraft is the Dragon (a nod to Puff the Magic Dragon). In seven years, SpaceX designed the family of Falcon launch vehicles and the Dragon multipurpose spacecraft. In September 2008, SpaceX's Falcon 1 rocket became the first privately funded liquid-fueled vehicle to put a satellite into Earth orbit. On May 25, 2012, the SpaceX Dragon vehicle berthed with the ISS, making history as the first commercial company to launch and berth a vehicle to the International Space Station.   NASA Administrator Charles Bolden congratulates Musk in front of the Dragon capsule in 2012   In 2006, SpaceX was awarded a contract from NASA to continue the development and test of the SpaceX Falcon 9 launch vehicle and Dragon spacecraft in order to transport cargo to the International Space Station,[not in citation given] followed by a US$1.6 billion NASA Commercial Resupply Services program contract on December 23, 2008, for 12 flights of its Falcon 9 rocket and Dragon spacecraft to the Space Station, replacing the US Space Shuttle after it retired in 2011. Astronaut transport to the ISS is currently handled solely by the Soyuz, but SpaceX is one of two companies awarded a contract by NASA as part of the Commercial Crew Development program, which is intended to develop a US astronaut transport capability by 2018.   Musk believed that the key to making space travel affordable is to make rockets reusable, Though most experts in the space industry did not believe that reusable rockets were possible or feasible. On December 22, 2015, SpaceX successfully landed the first stage of its Falcon rocket back at the launch pad. This was the first time in history such a feat had been achieved by an orbital rocket and is a significant step towards rocket reusability lowering the costs of access to space. This first stage recovery was replicated several times in 2016 by landing on an autonomous spaceport drone ship, an ocean-based recovery platform, and by the end of 2017, SpaceX had landed and recovered the first stage on 16 missions in a row where a landing and recovery were attempted, including all 14 attempts in 2017. 20 out of 42 first stage Falcon 9 boosters have been recovered overall since the Falcon 9 maiden flight in 2010. In the most recent full year—2017—SpaceX launched 18 successful Falcon 9 flights, more than doubling their highest previous year of 8.   On February 6, 2018, SpaceX successfully launched the Falcon Heavy, the fourth-highest capacity rocket ever built (after Saturn V, Energia and N1) and the most powerful rocket in operation as of 2018. The inaugural mission carried a Tesla Roadster belonging to Musk as a dummy payload.   SpaceX is both the largest private producer of rocket engines in the world and holder of the record for the highest thrust-to-weight ratio for a rocket engine (the Merlin 1D). SpaceX has produced more than 100 operational Merlin 1D engines. Each Merlin 1D engine can vertically lift the weight of 40 average family cars. In combination, the 9 Merlin engines in the Falcon 9 first stage produce anywhere from 5.8 to 6.7 MN (1.3 to 1.5 million pounds) of thrust, depending on altitude.   Musk was influenced by Isaac Asimov's Foundation series and views space exploration as an important step in preserving and expanding the consciousness of human life. Musk said that multiplanetary life may serve as a hedge against threats to the survival of the human species.    An asteroid or a super volcano could destroy us, and we face risks the dinosaurs never saw: an engineered virus, inadvertent creation of a micro black hole, catastrophic global warming or some as-yet-unknown technology could spell the end of us. Humankind evolved over millions of years, but in the last sixty years atomic weaponry created the potential to extinguish ourselves. Sooner or later, we must expand life beyond this green and blue ball—or go extinct.   Musk's goal is to reduce the cost of human spaceflight by a factor of 10. In a 2011 interview, he said he hopes to send humans to Mars' surface within 10–20 years. In Ashlee Vance's biography, Musk stated that he wants to establish a Mars colony by 2040, with a population of 80,000. Musk stated that, since Mars' atmosphere lacks oxygen, all transportation would have to be electric (electric cars, electric trains, Hyperloop, electric aircraft). Musk stated in June 2016 that the first unmanned flight of the larger Mars Colonial Transporter (MCT) spacecraft is aimed for departure to the red planet in 2022, to be followed by the first manned MCT Mars flight departing in 2024. In September 2016, Musk revealed details of his architecture to explore and colonize Mars. By 2016, Musk's private trust holds 54% of SpaceX stock, equivalent to 78% of voting shares.   In late 2017, SpaceX unveiled the design for its next-generation launch vehicle and spacecraft system—BFR—that would support all SpaceX launch service provider capabilities with a single set of very large vehicles: Earth-orbit, Lunar-orbit, interplanetary missions, and even intercontinental passenger transport on Earth, and totally replace the Falcon 9, Falcon Heavy and Dragon vehicles in the 2020s. The BFR will have a 9-meter (30 ft) core diameter. Significant development on the vehicles began in 2017, while the new rocket engine development began in 2012.  Tesla Main article: Tesla, Inc.   Tesla, Inc. (originally Tesla Motors) was incorporated in July 2003 by Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning, who financed the company until the Series A round of funding.   Both men played active roles in the company's early development prior to Elon Musk's involvement. Musk led the Series A round of investment in February 2004, joining Tesla's board of directors as its chairman. Musk took an active role within the company and oversaw Roadster product design at a detailed level, but was not deeply involved in day-to-day business operations.   Following the financial crisis in 2008 and after a series of escalating conflicts in 2007, Eberhard was ousted from the firm. Musk assumed leadership of the company as CEO and product architect, positions he still holds today. Tesla Motors first built an electric sports car, the Tesla Roadster in 2008, with sales of about 2,500 vehicles to 31 countries. Tesla began delivery of its four-door Model S sedan on June 22, 2012. It unveiled its third product, the Model X, aimed at the SUV/minivan market, on February 9, 2012; however, the Model X launch was delayed until September 2015. In addition to its own cars, Tesla sells electric powertrain systems to Daimler for the Smart EV, Mercedes B-Class Electric Drive and Mercedes A Class, and to Toyota for the RAV4 EV. Musk was able to bring in both companies as long-term investors in Tesla.    - Musk observing an assembly demo at the reopening of the NUMMI plant, now known as the Tesla Factory (Fremont, California) in 2010  - Musk and Senator Dianne Feinstein next to a Tesla Model S (2010)  - Musk standing in front of a Tesla Model S in 2011    Musk has favored building a sub-US$30,000 compact Tesla model and building and selling electric vehicle powertrain components so that other automakers can produce electric vehicles at affordable prices without having to develop the products in-house; this led to the Model 3 that is planned to have a base price of US$35,000. Several mainstream publications have compared him with Henry Ford for his work on advanced vehicle powertrains.   In a May 2013 interview with All Things Digital, Musk said that to overcome the range limitations of electric cars, Tesla is expanding its network of supercharger stations, tripling the number on the East and West coasts of the U.S. that June, with plans for more expansion across North America, including Canada, throughout the year. As of January 29, 2016, Musk owns about 28.9 million Tesla shares, which equates to about 22% of the company.   As of 2014, Musk's annual salary is one dollar, similar to that of Steve Jobs and other CEOs; the remainder of his compensation is in the form of stock and performance-based bonuses.   In 2014, Musk announced that Tesla would allow its technology patents to be used by anyone in good faith in a bid to entice automobile manufacturers to speed up development of electric cars. "The unfortunate reality is electric car programs (or programs for any vehicle that doesn't burn hydrocarbons) at the major manufacturers are small to non-existent, constituting an average of far less than 1% of their total vehicle sales," Musk said.   In February 2016, Musk announced that he had acquired the Tesla.com domain name from Stu Grossman, who had owned it since 1992, and changed Tesla's homepage to that domain.   In January 2018, Musk was granted an option to buy up to 20.3 million shares if Tesla's market value were to rise to $650 billion. Majority shareholder approval was pending As of 5 March 2018. The grant was also meant to end speculation about Musk's potential departure from Tesla to devote more time to his other business ventures. A report by advisory firm Glass Lewis & Co. to its clients argued against granting the options.[needs update]   The New York Post described the pending stock option grant as an "astronomical deal" in pay when it reported that Tesla accepted $750 million in public funds from New York Governor Andrew Cuomo as part of the Buffalo Billion project, a plan to invest money to help the economy of the Buffalo, New York area. The money was used to build a factory and infrastructure for solar panel maker SolarCity, which Tesla acquired. As of March 2018, the plant employed "just a few hundred workers and its future remains uncertain." (The Buffalo area actually lost nearly 5,000 jobs between December 2016 and December 2017).   In September 2018, Musk was charged by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for a tweet claiming that funding had been secured for taking Tesla private. The lawsuit characterized the tweet as false, misleading, and damaging to investors, and sought to bar Musk from serving as CEO on publicly traded companies. Two days later, Musk reached a settlement with the SEC. As a result, Musk and Tesla were fined $20 million each, and Musk was forced to step down as Tesla chairman within 45 days while remaining Tesla's CEO. Musk also proclaimed in several interviews since that he does not regret sending the tweet that triggered the SEC investigation. According to Reuters, Musk said the tweet that cost him and the company $20 million in fines was "Worth It". Musk also went on to tweet on October 1, 2018 a link to "O.P.P." by Naughty by Nature as a take on what had happened between him and the SEC.   According to ABC News, "As recently as Oct. 4, Musk issued a sarcastic tweet, describing the agency [SEC] as the “Shortseller Enrichment Commission,” despite having agreed to settlement terms a week earlier that his company, Tesla, would monitor his tweets and other communications."   Following Musk's resignation as chairman, Tesla named Robyn Denholm to replace Elon Musk as the acting chairman. This decision came after weeks of speculation on whether Tesla would nominate James Murdoch.  SolarCity Main article: SolarCity   Musk provided the initial concept and financial capital for SolarCity, which was then co-founded in 2006 by his cousins Lyndon and Peter Rive. By 2013, SolarCity was the second largest provider of solar power systems in the United States. SolarCity was acquired by Tesla, Inc. in 2016 and is currently a wholly owned subsidiary of Tesla.   The underlying motivation for funding both SolarCity and Tesla was to help combat global warming. In 2012, Musk announced that SolarCity and Tesla are collaborating to use electric vehicle batteries to smooth the impact of rooftop solar on the power grid, with the program going live in 2013.  Gigafactory Main article: Gigafactory 2   On June 17, 2014, Musk committed to building a SolarCity advanced production facility in Buffalo, New York, that would triple the size of the largest solar plant in the United States. Musk stated the plant will be "one of the single largest solar panel production plants in the world," and it will be followed by one or more even bigger facilities in subsequent years. The Tesla Gigafactory 2 is a photovoltaic (PV) cell factory, leased by Tesla subsidiary SolarCity in Buffalo, New York. Construction on the factory started in 2014 and was completed in 2017.  Hyperloop Main articles: Hyperloop and Hyperloop pod competition   On August 12, 2013, Musk unveiled a concept for a high-speed transportation system incorporating reduced-pressure tubes in which pressurized capsules ride on an air cushion driven by linear induction motors and air compressors. The mechanism for releasing the concept was an alpha-design document that, in addition to scoping out the technology, outlined a notional route where such a transport system might be built: between the Greater Los Angeles Area and the San Francisco Bay Area.   After earlier envisioning Hyperloop, Musk assigned a dozen engineers from Tesla and SpaceX who worked for nine months, establishing the conceptual foundations and creating the designs for the transportation system. An early design for the system was then published in a whitepaper posted to the Tesla and SpaceX blogs. Musk's proposal, if technologically feasible at the costs he has cited, would make Hyperloop travel cheaper than any other mode of transport for such long distances. The alpha design was proposed to use a partial vacuum to reduce aerodynamic drag, which it is theorized would allow for high-speed travel with relatively low power, with certain other features like air-bearing skis and an inlet compressor to reduce freestream flow. The document of alpha design estimated the total cost of an LA-to-SF Hyperloop system at US$6 billion, but this amount is speculative.   In June 2015, Musk announced a design competition for students and others to build Hyperloop pods to operate on a SpaceX-sponsored mile-long track in a 2015–2017 Hyperloop pod competition. The track was used in January 2017, and Musk also started building a tunnel.   Hyperloop One, a company unaffiliated with Musk, had announced that it had done its first successful test run on its DevLoop track in Nevada on July 13, 2017. It was on May 12, 2017, at 12:02 a.m. and had lasted 5.3 seconds, reaching a top speed of 70 mph.   On July 20, 2017, Elon Musk announced that he had gotten verbal government approval to build a hyperloop from New York City to Washington, D.C., stopping in both Philadelphia and Baltimore. However, the New York City Transit Authority, Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority, Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, Maryland Transit Administration, United States Department of Homeland Security, as well as the mayors of New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Washington D.C. stated that they are unaware of any such agreement.  OpenAI Main article: OpenAI   In December 2015, Musk announced the creation of OpenAI, a not-for-profit artificial intelligence (AI) research company. OpenAI aims to develop artificial general intelligence in a way that is safe and beneficial to humanity.   By making AI available to everyone, OpenAI wants to "counteract large corporations who may gain too much power by owning super-intelligence systems devoted to profits, as well as governments which may use AI to gain power and even oppress their citizenry." Musk has stated he wants to counteract the concentration of power. In 2018 Musk left the OpenAI board to avoid possible future conflicts with his role as CEO of Tesla as Tesla increasingly becomes involved in AI.   However, in an interview with Joe Rogan in September 2018, Musk warned about the dangers of developing artificial intelligence indiscriminately.  Neuralink Main article: Neuralink   In 2016, Musk co-founded Neuralink, a neurotechnology startup company to integrate the human brain with artificial intelligence. The company is centered on creating devices that can be implanted in the human brain, with the eventual purpose of helping human beings merge with software and keep pace with advancements in artificial intelligence. These enhancements could improve memory or allow more direct interfacing with computing devices. Musk sees Neuralink and OpenAI as related: "OpenAI is a nonprofit dedicated to minimizing the dangers of artificial intelligence, while Neuralink is working on ways to implant technology into our brains to create mind-computer interfaces."  The Boring Company Main article: The Boring Company  Musk discussing The Boring Company at TED 2017   On December 17, 2016, while stuck in traffic, Musk tweeted "Am going to build a tunnel boring machine and just start digging ..." The company was named 'The Boring Company'. On January 21, 2017, Musk tweeted "Exciting progress on the tunnel front. Plan to start digging in a month or so." The first tunnel will start on the SpaceX campus, The Boring Test Tunnel runs underneath West 120th Street. As of January 26, 2017, discussions with regulatory bodies had begun.   In February 2017, the company began digging a 30-foot-wide, 50-foot-long, and 15-foot-deep "test trench" on the premises of Space X's offices in Los Angeles, since the construction requires no permits. Musk had said in early 2017 that a 10-fold decrease in tunnel boring cost per mile is necessary for economic feasibility of the proposed tunnel network. By late 2018, TBC had active construction, approved plans in place, or an operational tunnel in several areas of the United States: Baltimore, Chicago and Los Angeles. TBC provided an update on the state of their technology and product line when they opened to the public their first mile-long test tunnel in Hawthorne, California, on 18 December 2018, stating that it has been a proof-of-concept for the technology. Design is complete for the third-generation Boring TBM, Prufrock, slated to support a 15x improvement in tunneling speed over the existing state of the art, and the machine will be assembled and begin engineering testing in 2019.:15:18–15:45  pravduh.com   After a string of negative press targeting Tesla caused Musk to become frustrated, specifically articles published by Reveal News criticizing Tesla for its factory safety procedures, Musk announced on Twitter that he is planning on creating a website where users could rate the truthfulness of specific articles in addition to the credibility of journalists and publications. He suggested calling it "Pravda" after a Soviet Union-era Communist Party newspaper of the same name.   This caused backlash from many journalists, claiming that a platform where any user could freely vote on an article's or a journalist's credibility could be prone to abuse.   After realizing the site "pravda.com" is used by the Ukrainian Internet newspaper Ukrayinska Pravda, Musk bought the site pravduh.com on May 25, 2018.  Tham Luang cave rescue   In July 2018, Musk attempted to provide assistance to rescuers during the Tham Luang cave rescue by ordering his employees to build a small rescue pod.   Musk, responding to requests for help from Twitter users, contacted James Yenbamroong, CEO of Thailand-based satellite company mu Space Corp, to get him connected with the Thai government. He then ordered engineers from two of his companies to design a child-sized submarine to help the rescue effort and publicised the process via Twitter. Engineers at Musk's companies SpaceX and The Boring Company built the mini-submarine out of a Falcon 9 liquid oxygen transfer tube and personally delivered it to Thailand.   Named "Wild Boar" after the children's soccer team, its design, a five-foot (1.5 m)-long, twelve-inch (300 mm)-inch wide sealed tube weighing about 90 pounds (41 kg) propelled manually by divers in the front and back, was intended to solve the problem of safely transporting the children, who might have had difficulty learning the scuba skills required to exit the cave on their own without panicking. In case the mini-submarine could not fit through the cave system, Elon Musk also requested Wing Inflatables, a California-based inflatable boat manufacturer, to build inflatable escape pods. The pods were designed, fabricated, and tested in one day before being flown to Thailand.   By this time, eight of the twelve children had already been rescued and Thai authorities decided not to use the submarine, describing it as technologically impressive but impractical.  Device viability   The supervisor of the rescue operation Narongsak Osatanakorn dismissed the submarine as impractical under the current circumstances. A rescue caver who had been exploring the cave for the past six years and who had originally located the trapped football team, said that Musk's idea "had absolutely no chance of working ... the submarine, I believe, was about five foot six long, rigid, so it wouldn't have gone round corners or round any obstacles. It wouldn't have made the first 50 metres into the cave from the dive start point." Musk tweeted that Richard Stanton, leader of the international diving team, had earlier urged Musk to continue construction of the mini-submarine as a back-up, in case the flooding worsened.   Although the device could safely hold an occupant, there were concerns that its rigid body was only slightly smaller than the narrowest passages in the cave, making it risky to get it through the tighter turns.  Media coverage and Musk's behavior   As media coverage of the event grew, some were skeptical of Musk's intentions, claiming the submarine was mainly built for publicity for Tesla and Musk, citing the apparent uselessness of the device.   One of the divers said to have played a major role in the rescue criticized the submarine as amounting to nothing more than a public relations effort with no chance of success, and that Musk "had no conception of what the cave passage was like"; and said that Musk "can stick his submarine where it hurts". Musk reasserted on Twitter that the device would have worked and referred to the diver as "pedo guy" without offering any evidence to support the claim, causing backlash against Musk. He subsequently deleted the tweets, along with an earlier tweet in which he told another critic of the device "Stay tuned jackass". On 16 July, the diver stated that he was considering legal action in relation to Musk's comments.   After Musk's Tweets, Tesla shares fell 4% as some investors worried about his erratic behavior. Tesla investors subsequently demanded that Musk apologize. Two days later, Musk issued an apology for his remarks: "The fault is mine and mine alone" and "my words were spoken in anger".   On August 28, 2018, in response to criticism from a writer on Twitter regarding how Musk had handled the diver's criticism, Musk circled back to the pedophilia accusation tweeting "You don't think it's strange he hasn't sued me? He was offered free legal services. ...". The following day, a letter from L. Lin Wood, the rescuer's attorney, dated August 6, emerged, showing that he had been making preparations for a libel lawsuit.   On 5 September 2018, a reporter from Buzzfeed News published an email written by Musk on August 30 marked "off the record", saying "I suggest that you call people you know in Thailand, find out what's actually going on and stop defending child rapists, you fucking asshole. As for this alleged threat of a lawsuit, which magically appeared when I raised the issue ... I fucking hope he sues me." Musk confirmed that he had sent the email. The diver subsequently filed a defamation suit in Los Angeles federal court in mid-September 2018, with plans to also file a similar case in the United Kingdom. The lawsuit contends that "Musk embarked on a PR campaign to destroy [the diver]'s reputation by publishing false and heinous accusations of criminality against him to the public", and seeks upwards of US$75,000 in damages.[needs update]  Teslaquila   Musk first mentioned Teslaquila in an April Fools tweet in 2018. The proposed Tesla-branded tequila become closer to a reality in October 2018 as Tesla filed an 'intent to use' trademark application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The trademark is for distilled agave liquor. Musk reaffirmed his intention to release the product with a tweet, featuring a mockup of the bottle, on October 12.   Mexico's Tequila Regulatory Council (CRT) has publicly denounced the proposed product, arguing, "If it wants to make Teslaquila viable as a tequila it would have to associate itself with an authorized tequila producer, comply with certain standards and request authorization from Mexico's Industrial Property Institute".  Views Political  Musk speaking alongside former Irish Taoiseach (Prime Minister) Enda Kenny in 2013   Politically, Musk has described himself as "half Democrat, half Republican" and "I'm somewhere in the middle, socially liberal and fiscally conservative." Prompted by the emergence of self-driving cars and artificial intelligence, Musk has voiced support for a universal basic income; he additionally backs direct democracy. He has described himself as a socialist, but "not the kind that shifts resources from most productive to least productive, pretending to do good, while actually causing harm" - arguing instead, "true socialism seeks greatest good for all." He supports targeting an inclusive tax rate of 40%, prefers consumption taxes to income taxes, and supports the estate tax, as the "probability of progeny being equally excellent at capital allocation is not high."   Musk has described the United States as " the greatest country that has ever existed on Earth," describing it as "the greatest force for good of any country that's ever been." Musk believes democracy would not exist any longer if not for the United States, saying that it prevented this disappearance on three occasions through its participation in World War I, World War II and the Cold War. Musk also stated that he thinks "it would be a mistake to say the United States is perfect, it certainly is not. There have been many foolish things the United States has done and bad things the United States has done."   Before the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States, Musk criticized candidate Trump by saying: "I feel a bit stronger that he is probably not the right guy. He doesn't seem to have the sort of character that reflects well on the United States." Following Donald Trump's inauguration, Musk expressed approval of Trump's choice of Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State and accepted an invitation to appear on a panel advising President Trump. Regarding his cooperation with Trump, Musk has subsequently commented: "The more voices of reason that the President hears, the better." He subsequently resigned from both in June 2017, in protest at Trump's decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement on climate change.  Lobbying   In an interview with The Washington Post, Musk stated he was a "significant (though not top-tier) donor to Democrats," but that he also gives heavily to Republicans. Musk further stated that political contributions are a requirement in order to have a voice in the United States government.   A 2012 report from the Sunlight Foundation, a nonpartisan group that tracks government spending, found that since 2002, SpaceX had spent more US$4 million on lobbying the United States Congress and more than US$800,000 in political contributions to Democrats and Republicans. The same report said that "SpaceX's campaign to win political support has been systematic and sophisticated," and that "unlike most tech-startups, SpaceX has maintained a significant lobbying presence in Washington almost since day 1." and that "Musk himself has donated roughly US$725,000 to various campaigns since 2002. In 2004, he contributed US$2,000 to President George W. Bush's reelection campaign, maxing out (over US$100,000) to Barack Obama's reelection campaign and donated US$5,000 to Republican Sen. Marco Rubio, who represents Florida, a state critical to the space industry. (...) All told, Musk and SpaceX gave out roughly US$250,000 in the 2012 election cycle." Additionally, SpaceX hired former Republican Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott to represent the company, via the Washington-based lobbying group Patton Boggs LLP. Alongside Patton Boggs LLP, SpaceX uses several other outside lobbying firms, who work with SpaceX's own lobbyists.   Musk had been a supporter of the U.S. political action committee (PAC) FWD.us, which was started by fellow high-profile entrepreneur Mark Zuckerberg and advocates for immigration reform. However, in May 2013, Musk publicly withdrew his support in protest of advertisements the PAC was running that supported causes like the Keystone Pipeline. Musk and other members, including David O. Sacks, pulled out, criticizing the strategy as "cynical." Musk further stated, "we shouldn't give in to the politics. If we give in to that, we'll get the political system we deserve."   In December 2013, Sean Becker of the media/political website Mic called Musk a "complete hypocrite," stating that " the 2014 election cycle, Musk has contributed to the Longhorn PAC and the National Republican Congressional Committee – both of which have funded the campaigns of anti-science, anti-environment candidates such as Rep. Michelle Bachman (R-Minn.)." Musk has directly contributed to Republican Sen. Marco Rubio, who has been accused of holding similar positions regarding climate change.  Subsidies   Musk has stated that he does not believe the U.S. government should provide subsidies to companies but should instead use a carbon tax to price in the negative externality of air pollution and discourage poor behavior. Musk says that the free market would achieve the best solution, and that producing environmentally unfriendly vehicles should come with its own consequences.   Musk's statements have been widely criticized, with Stanford University Professor Fred Turner noting that "if you're an entrepreneur like Elon Musk, you will take the money where you can get it, but at the same time believe as a matter of faith that it's entrepreneurship and technology that are the sources of social change, not the state. It is not quite self-delusion, but there is a habit of thinking of oneself as a free-standing, independent agent, and of not acknowledging the subsidies that one received. And this goes on all the time in Silicon Valley." Author Michael Shellenberger argued that "in the case of Musk, it is hard not to read that as a kind of defensiveness. And I think there is a business reason for it. They are dealing with a lot of investors for whom subsidies are not the basis for a long-term viable business, and they often want to exaggerate the speed with which they are going to be able to become independent." Shellenberger continues, "we would all be better off if these entrepreneurs were a bit more grateful, a bit more humble." While journalist and author Jim Motavalli, who interviewed Musk for High Voltage, his 2011 book about the electric vehicle industry, speculated that "Elon is now looking at it from the point of view of a winner, and he doesn't want to see other people win because they get government money – I do think there is a tendency of people, once they have succeeded, to want to pull the ladder up after them."   In 2015, Musk's statements were subject to further scrutiny when an LA Times article claimed that SpaceX, Tesla, SolarCity and buyers of their products had or were projected to receive together an estimated US$4.9 billion in government subsidies over twenty years. One example given is New York state, which is spending $750 million to build a solar panel factory in Buffalo which will be leased to SolarCity for $1 a year. The deal also includes no property taxes for a decade, an estimated $260 million valuation. Musk employs a former U.S. State Department official as the chief negotiator for Tesla.  Destiny and religion   When asked whether he believed "there was some kind of destiny involved" in humanity's transition to a multi-planetary species, rather than "just physics," Musk responded:    Well, I do. Do I think that there's some sort of master intelligence architecting all of this stuff? I think probably not because then you have to say: "Where does the master intelligence come from?" So it sort of begs the question. So I think really you can explain this with the fundamental laws of physics. You know it's complex phenomenon from simple elements.   Musk has stated that he does not pray, or worship any being, although he asked "any entities that  listening" to "bless  launch" before an important Falcon 1 launch. When asked whether he believed that religion and science could co-exist, Musk said most likely not.  Extraterrestrial life   Although Musk believes there could be simple life on other planets, he is unsure whether other intelligent life is likely. Musk later said that he "hope that there is other intelligent life in the known universe," and stated that it is "probably more likely than not, but that's a complete guess."   Musk has also considered the simulation hypothesis as a potential solution to the Fermi paradox:    The absence of any noticeable life may be an argument in favour of us being in a simulation ... Like when you're playing an adventure game, and you can see the stars in the background, but you can't ever get there. If it's not a simulation, then maybe we're in a lab and there's some advanced alien civilization that's just watching how we develop, out of curiosity, like mould in a Petri dish ... If you look at our current technology level, something strange has to happen to civilizations, and I mean strange in a bad way. ... And it could be that there are a whole lot of dead, one-planet civilizations. Artificial intelligence   Musk has frequently spoken about the potential dangers of artificial intelligence, calling it "the most serious threat to the survival of the human race." During a 2014 interview at the MIT AeroAstro Centennial Symposium, Musk described AI as humanity's largest existential threat, further stating, "I'm increasingly inclined to think that there should be some regulatory oversight, maybe at the national and international level, just to make sure that we don't do something very foolish." Musk described the creation of artificial intelligence as "summoning the demon".   Despite this, Musk has previously invested in DeepMind, an AI firm, and Vicarious, a company working to improve machine intelligence. In January 2015, he donated $10 million to the Future of Life Institute, an organization focused on challenges posed by advanced technologies. He is the co-chairman of OpenAI, a nonprofit artificial intelligence research company.   Musk has said that his investments are, "not from the standpoint of actually trying to make any investment return ... I like to just keep an eye on what's going on with artificial intelligence." Musk continued, "There have been movies about this, you know, like Terminator – there are some scary outcomes. And we should try to make sure the outcomes are good, not bad."   In June 2016, Musk was asked whether he thinks humans live in a computer simulation, to which he answered:    The strongest argument for us probably being in a simulation I think is the following: 40 years ago we had Pong – two rectangles and a dot. That's where we were. Now 40 years later we have photorealistic, 3D simulations with millions of people playing simultaneously and it's getting better every year. And soon we'll have virtual reality, we'll have augmented reality. If you assume any rate of improvement at all, then the games will become indistinguishable from reality, just indistinguishable.   Musk's dark warnings over artificial intelligence have brought him some controversy. He and Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg have clashed, with the latter calling his warnings irresponsible. Musk responded to Zuckerberg's censure by saying that he had discussed AI with Zuckerberg and found him to have only a limited understanding of the subject. In 2014, Slate's Adam Elkus argued that current AIs were as intelligent as a toddlers, and only in certain fields, going on to say that Musk's "summoning the demon" analogy may be harmful because it could result in significant cuts to AI research budgets.   The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation (ITIF), a Washington D.C. think-tank, awarded its Annual Luddite Award to "alarmists touting an artificial intelligence apocalypse"; its president, Robert D. Atkinson, complained that Musk and others say AI is the largest existential threat to humanity. Atkinson stated "That's not a very winning message if you want to get AI funding out of Congress to the National Science Foundation." Nature sharply disagreed with the ITIF in an April 2016 editorial, siding instead with Musk, and concluding: "It is crucial that progress in technology is matched by solid, well-funded research to anticipate the scenarios it could bring about ... If that is a Luddite perspective, then so be it." In a 2015 Washington Post editorial, researcher Murray Shanahan stated that human-level AI is unlikely to arrive in the near future, but that nevertheless "the time to start thinking through the consequences is now."  Public transport   At a Tesla event on the sidelines of the Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems in December 2017, Musk stated that:    I think public transport is painful. It sucks. Why do you want to get on something with a lot of other people, that doesn't leave where you want it to leave, doesn't start where you want it to start, doesn't end where you want it to end? And it doesn't go all the time. ... It's a pain in the ass. That's why everyone doesn't like it. And there's like a bunch of random strangers, one of who might be a serial killer, OK, great. And so that's why people like individualized transport, that goes where you want, when you want.   Afterwards, he dismissed an audience member's response that public transportation functioned effectively in Japan.   His comment sparked widespread criticism from both the public and transit experts. Urban planning expert Brent Toderian started the hashtag #GreatThingsThatHappenedonTransit which was widely adopted by Twitter users in order to dispel Musk's notion that everybody hated public transport. Yonah Freemark, an urbanist and journalist specialising in planning and transportation, summarised Musk's views on public transport as "It's terrible. You might be killed. Japanese trains are awful. Individualized transport for everyone! Congestion? Induced demand? Climate change impacts? Unwalkable streets? Who cares!"   Jarrett Walker, a known public transport expert and consultant from Portland, said that "Musk's hatred of sharing space with strangers is a luxury (or pathology) that only the rich can afford," referring to the theory that planning a city around the preferences of a minority yields an outcome that usually does not work for the majority. Musk responded with "You're an idiot," later saying "Sorry ... Meant to say 'sanctimonious idiot.'" The exchange received a significant amount of media attention and prompted Nobel laureate Paul Krugman to comment on the controversy, saying that apparently, "You're an idiot" is Musk's idea of a cogent argument.  Personal life   The 1994 model Dassault Falcon 900 aircraft used in the 2005 film Thank You for Smoking was registered to Musk (N900SX), and Musk had a cameo as the pilot of his plane, opening the door for Robert Duvall and escorting Aaron Eckhart aboard. Musk owns Wet Nellie, the Lotus Esprit from the James Bond film The Spy Who Loved Me. He plans to convert it into the functional car-submarine from the film.  Philanthropy   Musk is chairman of the Musk Foundation, which focuses its philanthropic efforts on providing solar-power energy systems in disaster areas. In 2010, the Musk Foundation collaborated with SolarCity to donate a 25-kW solar power system to the South Bay Community Alliance's hurricane response center in Coden, Alabama. In July 2011, the Musk Foundation donated US$250,000 towards a solar power project in Sōma, Japan, a city that had been recently devastated by a tsunami.   In July 2014, Musk was asked by cartoonist Matthew Inman and William Terbo, the grandnephew of Nikola Tesla, to donate US$8 million toward the construction of the Tesla Science Center at Wardenclyffe. Ultimately, Musk agreed to donate US$1 million toward the project and additionally pledged to build a Tesla Supercharger in the museum car park.   Musk donated US$10 million to the Future of Life Institute in January 2015, to run a global research program aimed at keeping artificial intelligence beneficial to humanity.   As of 2015, Musk is a trustee of the X Prize Foundation and a signatory of The Giving Pledge.   In October 2018, in an effort to help solve the Flint water crisis, Musk and the Musk Foundation donated over $480,000 to install new water fountains with filtration systems for access to clean water at all Flint, Michigan schools.  Family   Tosca Musk, Elon's sister, is a filmmaker. She is the founder of Musk Entertainment and has produced various movies.   Musk met his first wife, Canadian author Justine Wilson, while both were students at Ontario's Queen's University. They married in 2000 and separated in 2008. Their first son, Nevada Alexander Musk, died of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) at the age of 10 weeks. They later had five sons through in vitro fertilization – twins in 2004, followed by triplets in 2006. They share custody of all five sons.   In 2008, Musk began dating English actress Talulah Riley, and in 2010, the couple married. In January 2012, Musk announced that he had ended his four-year relationship with Riley, tweeting to Riley, "It was an amazing four years. I will love you forever. You will make someone very happy one day." In July 2013, Musk and Riley remarried. In December 2014, Musk filed for a second divorce from Riley; however, the action was withdrawn. The media announced in March 2016 that divorce proceedings were again under way, this time with Riley filing for divorce from Musk. The divorce was finalized in late 2016.   Musk began dating American actress Amber Heard in 2016 but the two split up after one year due to their conflicting schedules. On May 7, 2018, Musk and Canadian musician Grimes revealed that they had begun dating.  Zolpidem usage   In an apparent admission of mixing zolpidem (Ambien) and alcohol, Musk tweeted in June 2017: "A little red wine, vintage record, some Ambien ... and magic!" Musk gained media attention for mentioning the dangerous drug combination publicly on his social media.  Joe Rogan podcast appearance   In mid-September 2018, Musk appeared on The Joe Rogan Experience podcast and discussed various topics for 21/2 hours. Within five days, the appearance had registered 10 million YouTube views. One of the highest profile and controversial aspects of the program was Musk's puffing from a cannabis-laced cigarette offered by Rogan. The Washington Post observed, "In the media's hands, it became a story about Musk's growing instability ..." Tesla stock dropped after the incident, which coincided with the confirmation of the departure of Tesla's Vice President of Worldwide Finance earlier that day. Fortune wondered if the cannabis use could have ramifications for SpaceX contracts with the United States Air Force, though a USAF spokesperson told The Verge that there was no investigation being carried out and that the Air Force is still processing the situation.  Awards and recognition   - In 2006, Musk served as a member of the United States National Academy of Sciences Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board. - Inc Magazine Entrepreneur of the Year award for 2007 for his work on Tesla and SpaceX. - 2007 Index Design award for his design of the Tesla Roadster. Global Green 2006 product design award for his design of the Tesla Roadster, presented by Mikhail Gorbachev. - American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics George Low award for the most outstanding contribution in the field of space transportation in 2007/2008. Musk was recognized for his design of the Falcon 1, the first privately developed liquid-fuel rocket to reach orbit. - National Wildlife Federation 2008 National Conservation Achievement award for Tesla and SolarCity. Other 2008 recipients include journalist Thomas Friedman, U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT), and Florida Governor Charlie Crist. - National Space Society's Von Braun Trophy in 2008/2009, given for leadership of the most significant achievement in space. Prior recipients include Burt Rutan and Steve Squyres. - Listed as one of Time's 100 people who most affected the world in 2010. - The world governing body for aerospace records, Fédération Aéronautique Internationale, presented Musk in 2010 with the highest award in air and space, the FAI Gold Space Medal, for designing the first privately developed rocket to reach orbit. Prior recipients include Neil Armstrong, Burt Rutan of Scaled Composites and John Glenn. - Named as one of the 75 most influential people of the 21st century by Esquire magazine. - Recognized as a Living Legend of Aviation in 2010 by the Kitty Hawk Foundation for creating the successor to the Space Shuttle (Falcon 9 rocket and Dragon spacecraft). Other recipients include Buzz Aldrin and Richard Branson. - In February 2011, Forbes listed Musk as one of "America's 20 Most Powerful CEOs 40 And Under." - In June 2011, Musk was awarded the US$250,000 Heinlein Prize for Advances in Space Commercialization - In 2012, Musk was awarded the Royal Aeronautical Society's highest award: a Gold Medal. - In 2013, Musk was named the Fortune Businessperson of the year for SpaceX, SolarCity, and Tesla. - In 2015, he was awarded IEEE Honorary Membership. - In June 2016, Business Insider named Musk one of the "Top 10 Business Visionaries Creating Value for the World" along with Mark Zuckerberg and Sal Khan. - In December 2016, Musk was ranked 21st on Forbes list of The World's Most Powerful People. - In May 2017, Musk was awarded the Oslo Business for Peace Award. - Musk was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 2018. In popular media   In Iron Man 2 (2010), Musk met Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) in a restaurant, and had some brief lines regarding an "idea for an electric jet."   In January 2015, Musk made a guest appearance playing himself on The Simpsons in an episode titled "The Musk Who Fell to Earth"; the episode poked fun at many of Musk's ideas.   In November 2015, Musk appeared in an episode of The Big Bang Theory, playing himself, volunteering at a soup kitchen with Howard.   Musk was featured in the 2015 environmental documentary Racing Extinction, in which a custom Tesla Model S was designed to help project images of critically endangered species onto public buildings, including the Empire State Building and the Vatican.   In 2016, Musk appeared as himself in the romantic comedy film Why Him? where he was briefly met by one of the main characters, Ned Flemming played by Bryan Cranston, in a bar at a party.   Also in 2016, Musk was referenced by Dr. Martin Stein on The CW time-travel TV show DC's Legends of Tomorrow. During time travel to the past, Stein meets his younger self and introduced himself as Elon Musk, to disguise his own identity.   In October 2017, Musk was prematurely immortalized as a historic pioneer on the CBS All Access series Star Trek: Discovery. Set in the year 2256, Captain Gabriel Lorca attempts to motivate a scientist on his ship by asking him "How do you want to be remembered in history? Alongside the Wright Brothers, Elon Musk, Zefram Cochrane? Or as a failed fungus expert. A selfish little man who put the survival of his own ego before the lives of others?" According to an article in techcrunch.com published the day after the episode aired, this mention is "also interesting because of its notable omission of Amazon and Blue Origin founder Jeff Bezos: This other space entrepreneur is such a big fan of Star Trek that he pitched and succeeded in landing a cameo in Star Trek Beyond as an alien being, but he doesn't rate a mention from Lorca among the spaceflight pantheon."   Musk is significantly referenced numerous times in Hat Films' 2017 album, Neon Musk.   In November 2017, Musk appeared as himself in season 1, episode 6 of The Big Bang Theory spin-off prequel series Young Sheldon. The successful first landing of a SpaceX Falcon 9 first stage on a drone ship on April 8, 2016, is shown being covered by CNN. This is followed by a scene where Musk is shown alone in his office reading the notebook that young Sheldon mailed NASA in 1989 (a scene shown earlier in the episode) containing calculations detailing how this feat could be accomplished.  References    1. ^ "Billionaire Tesla CEO Elon Musk Buys Neighbor's Home in Bel Air For Million". Forbes. Retrieved November 1, 2013.  2. ^ "Inside Elon Musk's M Bel Air Mansion". Bloomberg News. Archived from the original on February 7, 2015. Retrieved August 21, 2013.  3. ^ Hull, Dana (April 11, 2014). "Timeline: Elon Musk's accomplishments". Retrieved June 11, 2015 – via Mercury News.  4. ^ Zanerhaft, Jaron (2013). "Elon Musk: Patriarchs and Prodigies". CSQ. C-Suite Quarterly. Retrieved June 11, 2015.  5. ^ "Elon Musk". Forbes. Retrieved January 5, 2019.  6. ^ "Actor Talulah Riley files to divorce billionaire Elon Musk, again". The Guardian. March 21, 2016. Retrieved April 20, 2016. The pair first married in 2010 and divorced in 2012. They remarried 18 months later.  7. ^ "Elon Musk and Amber Heard Call it Quits ... Again". PEOPLE.com. Retrieved 10 December 2018.  8. ^ Halls, Eleanor (30 November 2018). "Is Elon Musk behind his girlfriend Grimes's AI-loving new single?". The Telegraph. Retrieved 1 December 2018.  9. ^ Curtis, Sophie (November 10, 2014). "Elon Musk 'to launch fleet of internet satellites'". The Daily Telegraph. London. Retrieved June 23, 2015. Elon Musk, inventor and business magnate  10. ^ Vance, Ashlee (September 13, 2012). "Elon Musk, the 21st Century Industrialist". Bloomberg BusinessWeek. Archived from the original on April 26, 2017. Retrieved June 23, 2015.  11. ^ "Engineer in Focus: Elon Musk". asme.org. Retrieved November 4, 2015.  12. ^ Shanklin, Emily (March 27, 2017). "Elon Musk". SpaceX. Retrieved June 17, 2017.  13. ^ "Elon Musk | Tesla". www.tesla.com. Retrieved 2018-09-07.  14. ^ a b "The World's Most Powerful People". Forbes. December 2016. Retrieved December 14, 2016.  15. ^ "The World's Billionaires List". Forbes. Retrieved October 17, 2018.  16. ^ Martin LaMonica (September 21, 2009). "Tesla Motors founders: Now there are five". CNET.  17. ^ "A Brief history of Tesla". Tech Crunch. January 4, 2013. Retrieved April 21, 2014. Tesla was founded not by Elon Musk, but rather by Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning in July 2003. The two bootstrapped the fledgling auto company until Elon Musk led the company's  million Series A financing round in February 2004, when Musk became the company's Chairman of the Board.  18. ^ Hardy, Quentin; Bilton, Nick (March 16, 2014). "Start-Ups Aim to Conquer Space Market". The New York Times. Retrieved April 21, 2014. Space Exploration Technologies, or Space X, started by the Tesla founder Elon Musk  19. ^ "Trust Your Own Focus Group of One". Entrepreneur.com. April 11, 2014. Retrieved April 21, 2014. Elon Musk, founder of PayPal, Tesla and SpaceX  20. ^   21. ^ Jonathan Charlton. "Elon Musk 'Toying' with Designs for Electric Jet". Aviation.com. Retrieved May 30, 2015.  22. ^ Elon Musk on dodging a nervous breakdown (2013). YouTube. March 16, 2015.  23. ^ "Youtube Video - Elon Musk: The mind behind Tesla, SpaceX, SolarCity".  24. ^ Ross Andersen (September 30, 2014). "Elon Musk puts his case for a multi-planet civilisation". Aeon. Retrieved February 21, 2016.  25. ^ "Elon Musk (South African entrepreneur)". Britannica Online Encyclopedia. Retrieved December 23, 2012.  26. ^ a b His Biography author Ashlee Vance interviewed on the TV show Triangulation on the TWiT.tv network, discussion of his family starts around the 15th minute  27. ^ Friend, Tad (2009). "Plugged In". The New Yorker. 85 (23–30): 53. Retrieved December 23, 2012.  28. ^ Masia, Seth (May 2011). "A Family Leads to the Installer Universe". Solar Today. Retrieved December 23, 2012.  29. ^ a b Elliott, Hannah (March 3, 2012). "At Home With Elon Musk: The (Soon-to-Be) Bachelor Billionaire". Forbes. Retrieved August 12, 2013.  30. ^   31. ^ a b Hall, Dana (April 11, 2014). "Rocket Man: The otherworldly ambitions of Elon Musk". San Jose Mercury News. Retrieved April 14, 2014.  32. ^ Hannah Elliott. "At Home With Elon Musk: The (Soon-to-Be) Bachelor Billionaire". Forbes. Retrieved May 30, 2015.  33. ^ "Tweet". February 5, 2017.  34. ^ a b c d e f g Strauss, Neil (November 15, 2017). "Elon Musk: The Architect of Tomorrow". Rolling Stone. Retrieved November 15, 2017.  35. ^ "2014: Rocket Man: The otherworldly ambitions of Elon Musk". The Mercury News. April 10, 2014. Retrieved January 21, 2018.  36. ^ Crilly, Rob (March 25, 2018). "Elon Musk's father has baby with step-daughter he has known since she was four". The Telegraph. Retrieved March 26, 2018.  37. ^ a b c d e f Vance, Ashlee (2015). Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future. ISBN 978-0062301239.  38. ^ a b Pierre Haski (April 7, 2015). "How games helped make Elon Musk the real-life Tony Stark". rue89.nouvelobs.com.  39. ^ a b "Play the PC game Elon Musk wrote as a pre-teen".  40. ^ Belfiore, Michael (2007). "Chapter 7: Orbit on a Shoestring". Rocketeers. Harper Collins. pp. 166–95. ISBN 978-0-06-114902-3.  41. ^ "Blastar for HTML5". blastar-1984.appspot.com. Retrieved November 4, 2015.  42. ^ a b Jenna Etheridge (July 23, 2017). "Bryanston High School saddened by Elon Musk bullying". news24.com.  43. ^ Elon Musk, quoted in "Elon Musk Profiled: Bloomberg Risk Takers," www.bloomberg.com, August 3, 2013  44. ^ a b "37 Interesting Facts about Elon Musk, One of the Most Innovative Entrepreneurs of Our Time". BoomsBeat.com. February 14, 2014. Retrieved June 10, 2015.[unreliable source?]  45. ^ Davis, Johnny (August 4, 2007). "One more giant leap". The Daily Telegraph. London. Retrieved November 1, 2013.  46. ^ Diggelen, Alison van (February 7, 2013). "Iron Man, Growing up in South Africa". Fresh Dialogues. Retrieved November 1, 2013. I actually filled out the forms for her and got her a Canadian passport, and me too. Within three weeks of getting my Canadian passport, I was in Canada.  47. ^ "Elon Musk". Biography. Retrieved November 3, 2018.  48. ^ a b Friedman, Josh (April 22, 2003), "Entrepreneur Tries His Midas Touch in Space", Los Angeles Times  49. ^ a b c "Elon Musk Biography". Advameg. August 23, 2005.  50. ^ a b Kidder, David; Hoffman, Reid (2013). The Startup Playbook: Secrets of the Fastest Growing Start-Ups from the founding Entrepreneurs. San Francisco, CA: Chronicle Books. pp. 2224–228. ISBN 978-1452105048.  51. ^ Junnarkar, Sandeep (February 16, 1999). "Compaq buys Zip2". CNET.  52. ^ Jackson, Erik (2004). The PayPal Wars. Los Angeles, CA: World Ahead Publishing. pp. 40, 69, 130, 163.  53. ^ Musk, Elon (October 8, 2003). Success Through Viral Marketing: PayPal. Entrepreneurial Thought Leaders Lecture.  54. ^ "The PayPal Mafia". Fortune. Retrieved July 4, 2015.  55. ^ "SEC 10-K" (PDF). eBay. December 31, 2002.  56. ^ "SEC 10-K". Paypal. December 31, 2001.  57. ^ Elon Musk [@elonmusk] (July 10, 2017). "Thanks PayPal for allowing me to buy back X.com ! No plans right now, but it has great sentimental value to me" (Tweet) – via Twitter.  58. ^ McKnight, John Carter (September 25, 2001). "Elon Musk, Life to Mars Foundation". Mars Now, a weekly column. Space Frontier Foundation.  59. ^ Musk, Elon. "Risky Business". IEEE Spectrum. Retrieved April 27, 2014.  60. ^ a b Vance, Ashlee (May 14, 2015). "Elon Musk's space dream almost killed Tesla". Bloomberg L.P. Retrieved June 7, 2015.  61. ^ "How Steve Jurvetson Saved Elon Musk". Business Insider. September 14, 2012.  62. ^ SpaceX and Daring to Think Big – Steve Jurvetson. YouTube. January 28, 2015.  63. ^ Elon Musk (September 8, 2006). "SpaceX wins NASA competition to replace Space Shuttle". SpaceX.  64. ^ Wayne, Leslie (February 5, 2006). "A Bold Plan to Go Where Men Have Gone Before". The New York Times. Retrieved February 16, 2015.  65. ^ California Business Search (C2414622 - Space Exploration Technologies Corp)  66. ^ SpaceX  67. ^ Harwood, William (May 31, 2012). "SpaceX Dragon returns to Earth, ends historic trip". CBS News. Retrieved August 3, 2013.  68. ^ COTS 2006 Demo Competition. NASA (accessed August 26, 2014); and announcement "Commercial Orbital Transportation Services Demonstrations". January 18, 2006 (accessed August 26, 2014)  69. ^ "NASA Awards Space Station Commercial Resupply Services Contracts". nasa.gov. NASA. December 23, 2008. Retrieved June 30, 2016.  70. ^ "Boeing And SpaceX Win Billion in NASA Contracts". NPR.org. National Public Radio. Retrieved June 30, 2016.  71. ^ a b Schilling, Melissa (2018). Quirky: The remarkable story of the traits, foibles, and genius of breakthrough innovators who changed the world. PublicAffairs.  72. ^ "SpaceX rocket in historic upright landing". BBC News. Retrieved June 30, 2016.  73. ^ O'Kane, Sean (May 27, 2016). "SpaceX successfully lands a Falcon 9 rocket at sea for the third time". The Verge. Retrieved June 30, 2016.  74. ^ Henry, Caleb (December 22, 2017). "SpaceX concludes 2017 with fourth Iridium Next launch". SpaceNews. Retrieved December 25, 2017.  75. ^ Mike Wall (December 22, 2017). "Used SpaceX Rocket Launches 10 Communications Satellites Once Again". Space.com. Retrieved December 25, 2017.  76. ^ Gebhardt, Chris (February 9, 2018). "Falcon Heavy success paves the way for open access to space beyond Earth – NASASpaceFlight.com". NASASpaceFlight.com. Retrieved February 19, 2018.  77. ^ "Is SpaceX Changing the Rocket Equation?". airspacemag.com. Retrieved May 30, 2015.  78. ^ Clark, Stephen. "100th Merlin 1D engine flies on Falcon 9 rocket – Spaceflight Now". Retrieved June 30, 2016.  79. ^ "SpaceX completes 100th Merlin 1D Engine". SpaceX. Retrieved April 19, 2015.  80. ^ Carroll, Roy (July 17, 2013). "Elon Musk's mission to Mars". The Guardian. London, UK. Retrieved July 23, 2013.  81. ^ a b "75 most influential people: Elon Musk". Esquire. October 1, 2008.  82. ^ "Space Exploration Technologies Corporation Press Release". SpaceX. Retrieved December 15, 2012.  83. ^ "Elon Musk: I'll Put a Man on Mars in 10 Years". Market Watch. New York. April 22, 2011. Archived from the original on December 1, 2011. Retrieved December 1, 2011.  84. ^ Elon Musk speaks at the Hyperloop Pod Award Ceremony (2016.1.30). January 31, 2016. Retrieved February 21, 2016 – via YouTube.  85. ^ Davenport, Christian (June 13, 2016). "Elon Musk provides new details on his 'mind blowing' mission to Mars". The Washington Post. Retrieved June 14, 2016.  86. ^ Chang, Kenneth (September 27, 2016). "Elon Musk's Plan: Get Humans to Mars, and Beyond". The New York Times. Retrieved September 27, 2016.  87. ^ Lambert, Fred (November 16, 2016). "Elon Musk's stake in SpaceX is actually worth more than his Tesla shares". Electrek. Retrieved November 17, 2016.  88. ^ Elon Musk (September 29, 2017). Becoming a Multiplanet Species (video). 68th annual meeting of the International Astronautical Congress in Adelaide, Australia: SpaceX. Retrieved December 31, 2017 – via YouTube.  89. ^ Dent, Steve (September 29, 2017). "Elon Musk's Mars dream hinges on a giant new rocket". Engadget. Retrieved January 1, 2018.  90. ^ Burns, Matt (October 8, 2014). "A Brief History of Tesla". TechCrunch. TechCrunch.com. Retrieved June 11, 2015.  91. ^ Nordqvist, Joseph (February 12, 2014). "Tesla Motors Inc.—Company Information". Market Business News. Archived from the original on February 12, 2014. Retrieved April 16, 2014.  92. ^ Musk, Elon (August 2, 2006). "The Secret Tesla Motors Master Plan (just between you and me) No. 124". Tesla Motors. Archived from the original on August 2, 2010. Retrieved October 3, 2010. [self-published source]  93. ^ Musk, Elon. "CEO Elon Musk". Tesla Motors. Retrieved October 20, 2010.  94. ^ Morrison, Chris (October 15, 2008). "Musk steps in as CEO". The New York Times.  95. ^ Graham Ruddick. "Tesla's Model X electric car spreads falcon wings at US launch". the Guardian. Retrieved November 4, 2015.  96. ^ "Tesla Model X: Not a model launch". Fortune. Retrieved November 4, 2015.  97. ^ "Model X". Tesla Motors. October 29, 2012.  98. ^ Joann Muller (June 1, 2013). "What Do Toyota And Mercedes See in Tesla? A Bit of Themselves". Forbes.com.  99. ^ Musk, Elon (August 2, 2006). "The Secret Tesla Motors Master Plan (just between you and me)". Tesla Motors.  100. ^ Hamilton, Tyler (October 12, 2009). "Tesla CEO following in Henry Ford's tracks". Toronto Star. Archived from the original on October 17, 2009.  101. ^ Del Ray, Jason (May 29, 2013), Musk: You'll Be Able to Drive Your Tesla Cross-Country by Year's End With Supercharger Expansion, All Things D  102. ^ Claudia Assis; Jeremy C. Owens. "Elon Musk exercises Tesla options, pays million tax bill with own cash". MarketWatch. Retrieved February 21, 2016.  103. ^ Chris Ziegler (January 29, 2016). "Elon Musk bought $100 million more worth of Tesla this week". The Verge. Vox Media. Retrieved February 21, 2016.  104. ^ "Tesla's Elon Musk worked for free last year". Fortune. Retrieved November 4, 2015.  105. ^ Durisin, Megan (August 10, 2013). "Musk get US$4.3 million of stock options for Model X work". Bloomberg L.P. Retrieved January 15, 2014.  106. ^ "All Our Patent Are Belong To You". Tesla Motors. Retrieved November 4, 2015.  107. ^ Dana Hull (February 19, 2016). "Musk Gets Tesla.com Domain Name After Waiting a Decade". Bloomberg L.P. Retrieved March 22, 2016.  108. ^ a b "Tesla's $2.6 Billion Musk Award Too Costly, Glass Lewis Says". Bloomberg.com. March 5, 2018. Retrieved March 6, 2018.  109. ^ "Musk's New Pay Deal Could Make Him the World's Richest Man—If Tesla Succeeds". Bloomberg.com. January 23, 2018. Retrieved March 6, 2018.  110. ^ "New York taxpayers' gift to Elon Musk". New York Post. March 25, 2018. Retrieved April 10, 2018.  111. ^ Goldstein, Matthew (27 September 2018). "S.E.C. Sues Tesla's Elon Musk for Fraud and Seeks to Bar Him From Running a Public Company". The New York Times. Retrieved 27 September 2018.  112. ^ O'Kane, Sean; Lopatto, Elizabeth (27 September 2018). "Elon Musk sued by SEC for securities fraud". www.theverge.com. Retrieved 27 September 2018.  113. ^ "Elon Musk forced to step down as chairman of Tesla, remains CEO". The Verge. Retrieved 2018-09-29.  114. ^ "Tesla's Elon Musk says tweet that led to $20 million fine 'Worth It'". Reuters. 2018-10-27. Retrieved 2018-12-09.  115. ^ "Elon Musk commits to SEC settlement despite mocking tweets". ABC News. 2018-10-11. Retrieved 2018-10-17.  116. ^ Kolodny, Lora (2018-11-08). "Robyn Denholm replaces Elon Musk as Tesla's board chair". www.cnbc.com. Retrieved 2018-12-09.  117. ^ "Management Team". SolarCity.  118. ^ Kanellos, Michael (February 15, 2008). "Newsmaker: Elon Musk on rockets, sports cars, and solar power". CNET.  119. ^ "2013 Top 250 Solar Contractors". Solar Power World. September 13, 2013.  120. ^ "Tesla's Acquisition of SolarCity Receives Shareholder Approval". Retrieved November 17, 2016.  121. ^ "Early Christmas Present For Elon Musk As Shareholders Bless Tesla-SolarCity Merger". Forbes. November 17, 2016. Retrieved November 22, 2016.  122. ^ "Tesla - Current Report". ir.tesla.com.  123. ^ The unveiling of the Tesla Motors Electric Car. Autoblog. Retrieved July 26, 2006.  124. ^ Diggelen, Alison van. "Tesla and SolarCity Collaborate on Clean Energy Storage". KQED. Retrieved June 25, 2012.  125. ^ Aaron Smith (June 17, 2014). "Elon Musk's sunny plans for Buffalo". CNNMoney.  126. ^ Ayre, James (2017-09-07). "Solar Roof Tile Production At Tesla's Buffalo "Gigafactory" Now Up & Running". CleanTechnica. US. Retrieved 2018-09-26.  127. ^ "Beyond the hype of Hyperloop: An analysis of Elon Musk's proposed transit system". Gizmag.com. August 22, 2013. Retrieved August 23, 2013.  128. ^ Ashlee Vance. "Revealed: Elon Musk Explains the Hyperloop, the Solar-Powered High-Speed Future of Inter-City Transportation". Bloomberg BusinessWeek. Retrieved April 27, 2016.  129. ^ "Hyperloop Update: Elon Musk Will Start Developing It Himself". Forbes.com. Retrieved March 22, 2016.  130. ^ "Musk announces plans to build Hyperloop demonstrator". gizmag.com. Retrieved November 4, 2015.  131. ^ Musk, Elon (August 12, 2013). "Hyperloop Alpha" (PDF). SpaceX. Retrieved August 13, 2013.  132. ^ Musk, Elon (August 12, 2013). "Hyperloop". Tesla. Retrieved August 13, 2013.  133. ^ "Hyperloop Designed for Quick, Convenient Commute". ABC News. March 9, 2013. Retrieved August 15, 2013.  134. ^ "Hyperloop". SpaceX. Retrieved August 13, 2013.  135. ^ Mazza, Sandy (January 29, 2017). "Hyperloop competition brings new mass-transit technology to life in Hawthorne". Daily Bulletin.  136. ^ Hawkins, Andrew J. (July 14, 2017). "Talking to Hyperloop One about its big 'Kitty Hawk' moment – and what comes next". The Verge. Retrieved July 14, 2017.  137. ^ "Elon Musk Says He Has 'Verbal' OK To Build N.Y.-D.C. Hyperloop". NPR.org. Retrieved July 25, 2017.  138. ^ Felton, Ryan (July 20, 2017). "Here's A Running List of Comments From Public Agencies on Elon Musk's 'Verbal Govt Approval' To Build A Hyperloop From NYC To D.C." Jalopnik. Retrieved July 27, 2017.  139. ^ Markoff, John (December 11, 2015). "Artificial-Intelligence Research Center Is Founded by Silicon Valley Investors". The New York Times. Retrieved December 15, 2015.  140. ^ Levy, Steven (December 11, 2015). "How Elon Musk and Y Combinator Plan to Stop Computers From Taking Over". Medium/Backchannel. Retrieved December 15, 2015.  141. ^ "Elon Musk, who has sounded the alarm on AI, leaves the organization he co-founded to make it safer". CNBC. February 21, 2018. Retrieved February 28, 2018.  142. ^ "Elon Musk launches Neuralink, a venture to merge the human brain with AI". The Verge. March 27, 2017. Retrieved April 10, 2017.  143. ^ Golson, Jordan (January 25, 2017). "Elon Musk: "Without tunnels, we will all be in traffic hell forever"". The Verge. Retrieved January 29, 2017.  144. ^ "Elon Musk Will Begin Digging His "Boring Company" Tunnel in About A Month". Fortune. Retrieved January 29, 2017.  145. ^ Parnell, Brid-Aine. "Elon Musk Teases Traffic-Busting Tunneling Firm 'The Boring Co.'". Forbes. Retrieved January 29, 2017.  146. ^ Solon, Olivia (January 26, 2017). "Elon Musk to dig tunnel to ease traffic in LA, but he doesn't yet have permission" – via The Guardian.  147. ^ Chafkin, Max (February 16, 2017). "Elon Musk Is Really Boring". Bloomberg. Retrieved February 17, 2017.  148. ^ Heathman, Amelia. "Elon Musk's boring machine has already built a 'test trench' in LA". Wired UK. Retrieved February 19, 2017.  149. ^ Hanley, Steve. "Elon Musk Talks About His Vision Of The Future At TED2017". Gas2. Retrieved October 16, 2017.  150. ^ "When Boring Company Will Start Digging Northeast Hyperloop, Gov Docs Reveal : It's sooner than you think". Inverse. December 15, 2017. Retrieved 22 December 2018.  151. ^ Elon Musk’s Boring Company proposes tunnel system leading to LA Dodgers Stadium, Teslatrati, 16 August 2018, accessed 22 December 2018.  152. ^ a b Elon Musk (18 December 2018). The Boring Company Event Webcast (video). Hawthorne, California: The Boring Company. Retrieved 22 December 2018 – via YouTube.  153. ^ https://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-elon-musk-tunnel-hawthorne-20181217-story.html  154. ^ "Elon Musk joins the Truth Squad and so can you". PolitiFact. Retrieved 2018-07-18.  155. ^ "Tesla says its factory is safer. But it left injuries off the books". Reveal. 2018-04-16. Retrieved 2018-07-18.  156. ^ Elon Musk [@elonmusk] (May 23, 2018). "Tweet on credibility website idea" (Tweet) – via Twitter.  157. ^ "Elon Musk thinks you can crowdsource truth, but that's not how the internet works". The Verge. Retrieved 2018-07-18.  158. ^ https://www.facebook.com/peter.holley.923. "Pravda: Elon Musk's solution for punishing journalists". Washington Post. Retrieved 2018-07-18.  159. ^ Elon Musk [@elonmusk] (May 25, 2018). "Tweet on buying Pravduh.com" (Tweet) – via Twitter.  160. ^ "Elon Musk joins effort to free Thai boys from cave, as immediate diving attempt ruled out".  161. ^ Jordan, Dearbail (2018-07-06). "Elon Musk offers to help Thai cave rescue". BBC News. Retrieved 2018-10-25.  162. ^ Glaser, April. "Elon Musk Is Trying to Aid the Thai Cave Rescue by Sending His Engineers and Brainstorming on Twitter". Slate. Archived from the original on 7 July 2018. Retrieved 8 July 2018.  163. ^ "Elon Musk says SpaceX is building a 'kid-sized submarine' to rescue trapped soccer team". The Verge. Archived from the original on 8 July 2018. Retrieved 8 July 2018.  164. ^ Ferris, Robert (10 July 2018). "Elon Musk says his 'mini-submarine' can be used for other things". CNBC. Retrieved 13 July 2018.  165. ^ a b "Let's Talk About Elon Musk's Submarine". Hackaday. 2018-07-17. Retrieved 2018-08-11.  166. ^ McKay, Tom. "Elon Musk Says He's Building a Tiny 'Submarine' to Rescue Thai Soccer Team Trapped in Cave". Gizmodo. Retrieved 2018-08-28.  167. ^ "Thai official: Elon Musk's submarine "not practical for this mission" [Updated]". Ars Technica. Retrieved 2018-08-28.  168. ^ "Arcata's Wing Inflatables, SpaceX collaborate on Thailand cave rescue". madriverunion.com. Archived from the original on 9 July 2018. Retrieved 19 July 2018.  169. ^ "Answering Elon Musk's call for help to build Thailand's cave rescue pod in 24 hours". teslarati.com. Archived from the original on 9 July 2018. Retrieved 10 July 2018.  170. ^ "Thai cave rescue: Elon Musk delivers tiny submarine, rescuers say no thanks". ABC News. 10 July 2018. Archived from the original on 10 July 2018. Retrieved 10 July 2018.  171. ^ Rawlinson, Kevin (10 July 2018). "Elon Musk queries expertise of Thai cave rescue officials". The Guardian. Retrieved 16 July 2018.  172. ^ Suhartono, Muktita; Jacobs, Julia (15 July 2018). "Elon Musk Defends His Rejected Mini-Sub Plan for Thai Cave". The New York Times. Retrieved 16 July 2018.  173. ^ Chris Baynes (14 July 2018). "Elon Musk can 'stick his submarine where it hurts', says British caver who helped rescue Thai schoolboys". Independent. Retrieved 14 July 2018.  174. ^ David Z. Morris (15 July 2018). "Elon Musk Calls Diver in Thai Soccer Team Rescue a Pedophile". Fortune. Retrieved 15 July 2018.  175. ^ "Richard Stanton email correspondence". twitter.com. Archived from the original on 18 July 2018. Retrieved 19 July 2018.  176. ^ "Is Elon Musk's "kid-sized submarine" a gimmick?". The New Republic. Retrieved 2018-08-31.  177. ^ "Subscribe to read". Financial Times. Retrieved 2018-08-31.  178. ^ "Elon Musk's weakness for self-promotion masks his potential". Financial Times. Retrieved 2018-08-31.  179. ^ Furious Elon Musk calls Thailand cave rescue diver a ‘pedo’ By Linda Massarella, NYP July 15, 2018  180. ^ Michaels, Matthew (15 July 2018). "Elon Musk calls British diver from the Thai cave rescue a 'pedo guy' after he said Elon 'can stick his submarine where it hurts'". Business Insider. Business Insider. Retrieved 15 July 2018.  181. ^ a b Levin, Sam (15 July 2018). "Elon Musk calls British diver in Thai cave rescue a 'pedo' in baseless attack". The Guardian. The Guardian. Retrieved 15 July 2018.  182. ^ "British caver 'could sue' Elon Musk". BBC News. 2018-07-16. Retrieved 2018-07-16.  183. ^ Safi, Michael; Levin, Sam (16 July 2018). "British cave diver considering legal action over Elon Musk's 'pedo' attack". The Guardian. The Guardian. Retrieved 16 July 2018.  184. ^ Kelleher, Kevin (16 July 2018). "After Elon Musk's 'Pedo' Tweet, Tesla Shares Fall 4% as Some Investors Worry About His Erratic Behavior". Fortune. Retrieved 18 July 2018.  185. ^ Levin, Sam (17 July 2018). "Tesla investors demand Elon Musk apologize for calling Thailand diver 'pedo'". The Guardian. Retrieved 18 July 2018.  186. ^ Browne, Ryan. "Elon Musk apologizes to British cave diver following baseless 'pedo guy' claim". CNBC. Retrieved 18 July 2018.  187. ^ Chang, Charis (18 July 2018). "Elon Musk apologises for calling Thai rescue diver a 'pedo'". news.com.au. Retrieved 18 July 2018.  188. ^ "Twitter". 17 July 2018. Retrieved 18 July 2018.  189. ^ Van Boom, Daniel (18 July 2018). "Elon Musk apologises for calling Thai cave rescue diver 'pedo guy'". CNET. Retrieved 18 July 2018.  190. ^ Mac, Ryan. "Elon Musk Revisits Baseless Pedophile Claims". BuzzFeed News. Retrieved 28 August 2018.  191. ^ Mac, Ryan (29 August 2018). "The Rescuer Elon Musk Called A "Pedo" Is Preparing A Libel Claim". BuzzFeed News. Retrieved 29 August 2018.  192. ^ Castillo, Michelle (29 August 2018). "Cave explorer Elon Musk called a 'pedo guy' is preparing a lawsuit". CNBC. Retrieved 29 August 2018.  193. ^ Levin, Sam (5 September 2018). "Elon Musk calls Thailand diver 'child rapist' in latest baseless attack". The Guardian. Retrieved 5 September 2018.  194. ^ "Elon Musk sued for libel by British Thai cave rescuer". BBC. 17 September 2018. Retrieved 17 September 2018.  195. ^ Locklear, Mallory (17 September 2018). "British cave diver sues Elon Musk over 'pedo guy' comments". Engadget. Retrieved 17 September 2018.  196. ^ "Elon Musk on Twitter". Twitter. Retrieved 2018-11-29.  197. ^ Whitten, Sarah (2018-10-12). "Elon Musk's Tesla files for a trademark of 'Teslaquila'". CNBC. Retrieved 2018-11-29.  198. ^ "Elon Musk on Twitter". Twitter. Retrieved 2018-11-29.  199. ^ Reuters. "Elon Musk's 'Teslaquila' Faces Clash With Mexican Tequila Industry". VOA. Retrieved 2018-11-29.  200. ^ "Elon Musk: The Way Of The Future". YouTube. Retrieved November 4, 2015.  201. ^ Strange, Adario (November 5, 2016). "Elon Musk thinks universal income is answer to automation taking human jobs". mashable.com. Retrieved February 6, 2017.  202. ^ "Elon Musk on Twitter". Twitter. Retrieved 2018-06-29.  203. ^ "Elon Musk on Twitter". Twitter. Retrieved 2018-06-29.  204. ^ "Elon Musk on Twitter". Twitter. Retrieved 2018-06-29.  205. ^ Wattenberg, Ben. "Elon Musk and the frontier of Technology". Think Tank. PBS.org. Retrieved June 12, 2015.  206. ^ "Elon Musk on Trump presidency: 'I don't think he's the right guy'". businessinsider.in. Retrieved March 21, 2017.  207. ^ Lee, Dave (January 26, 2017). "Elon Musk: I'm Trump's voice of reason". BBC News. Retrieved January 29, 2017.  208. ^ "US quits Paris climate pact: Reaction from around the world following the US president's decision on the Paris accord". Retrieved June 1, 2017.  209. ^ "Elon Musk anouncing departing presidential councils on Twitter". Retrieved June 1, 2017.  210. ^ a b "Elon Musk, SpaceX Founder, Battles Entrenched Rivals Over NASA Contracts". The Huffington Post. February 20, 2013. Retrieved May 30, 2015.  211. ^ "Obama and Congress at odds over Elon Musk". fightforvotes.com. Archived from the original on May 30, 2015. Retrieved May 30, 2015.  212. ^ Timothy P. Carney, "Carney: Green stimulus profiteer comes under IRS scrutiny", WashingtonExaminer.com, October 14, 2012.  213. ^ a b "SpaceX blasts off literally and politically". Sunlight Foundation. Retrieved May 30, 2015.  214. ^ Salant, Jonathan D. (September 27, 2013). "Billionaires Battle as Bezos-Musk Companies Vie for Launch Pad". Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg Business. Retrieved July 1, 2015.  215. ^ Steven Kovach, "Elon Musk Says He Quit Mark Zuckerberg's PAC Because It Was Too Cynical", BusinessInsider.com, May 31, 2013.  216. ^ a b Becker, Sean (December 11, 2013). "Elon Musk Donated to Anti-Science Republicans". Mic. Policy.Mic. Retrieved June 10, 2015.  217. ^ Werber, Cassie. "Elon Musk says tax-free carbon is "the dumbest experiment in history"". Quartz. Retrieved August 30, 2016.  218. ^ "Taxpayer Subsidies Helped Tesla Motors, So Why Does Elon Musk Slam Them?". Mother Jones. Retrieved April 19, 2015.  219. ^ Harkinson, Josh (September 2013). "Taxpayer Subsidies Helped Tesla Motors, So Why Does Elon Musk Slam Them?". Mother Jones. Retrieved June 10, 2015.  220. ^ Hirsch, Jerry (May 30, 2015). "Elon Musk's growing empire is fuelled by  billion in government subsidies". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved June 2, 2015.  221. ^ "Going to Mars with Elon Musk". OnInnovation.com. June 2008. Retrieved June 10, 2015.Going To Mars (alt link retrieved Feb 2, 2018)  222. ^ a b "Elon Musk and Rainn Wilson discuss colonizing Mars, global warming, and the fear of failure". The Verge. March 19, 2013. Retrieved June 12, 2015.  223. ^ "Elon Musk, CEO and CTO, Space Exploration Technologies Corp (SpaceX), Peter Diamandis, CEO, X Prize Foundation and John Doerr, Venture Capital, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers". YouTube. Retrieved November 4, 2015.  224. ^ Anderson, Ross (September 30, 2014). "The Elon Musk Interview on Mars Colonization". Aeon. Retrieved June 10, 2015.  225. ^ Gibbs, Samuel (October 27, 2014). "Elon Musk: artificial intelligence is our biggest existential threat". The Guardian. Retrieved December 15, 2015.  226. ^ "Elon Musk and Stephen Hawking think we should ban killer robots". Washington Post. July 28, 2015. Archived from the original on March 8, 2016. Retrieved January 5, 2017.  227. ^ a b Kosoff, Maya (January 15, 2015). "Elon Musk Is Donating Million To Keep Killer Robots From Taking Over The World". Business Insider. Retrieved December 15, 2015.  228. ^ Muoio, Danielle (December 11, 2015). "Elon Musk just announced a new artificial intelligence research company". Tech Insider. Retrieved December 11, 2015.  229. ^ Hern, Alex (June 18, 2014). "Elon Musk says he invested in DeepMind over 'Terminator' fears". Retrieved June 10, 2015 – via The Guardian.  230. ^ "We are living in a computer simulation, Elon Musk says". The Independent. June 2, 2016. Retrieved June 30, 2016.  231. ^ Elkus, Adam (October 31, 2014). "Don't Fear Artificial Intelligence". Slate. Retrieved May 15, 2016.  232. ^ Artificial Intelligence Alarmists Win ITIF’s Annual Luddite Award, ITIF Website, January 19, 2016  233. ^ "'Artificial intelligence alarmists' like Elon Musk and Stephen Hawking win 'Luddite of the Year' award". The Independent (UK). January 19, 2016. Retrieved February 25, 2018.  234. ^ Price, Emily (December 24, 2015). "Elon Musk nominated for 'luddite' of the year prize over artificial intelligence fears". The Guardian. Retrieved February 25, 2018.  235. ^ "Anticipating artificial intelligence". Nature. 532 (7600): 413. April 26, 2016. Bibcode:2016Natur.532Q.413.. doi:10.1038/532413a. PMID 27121801.  236. ^ Murray Shanahan (November 3, 2015). "Machines may seem intelligent, but it'll be a while before they actually are". The Washington Post. Retrieved February 26, 2018.  237. ^ a b Brown, Mike (15 Dec 2017). "Elon Musk Sparks Heated Twitter Debate Over Boring Company's Vision". Inverse. Retrieved December 23, 2017.  238. ^ a b Hunt, Elle (December 21, 2017). "'I met my wife on a train platform': Twitter responds to Elon Musk with positive public transport stories". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved December 23, 2017.  239. ^ Marshall, Aarian (December 14, 2017). "Elon Musk Really Doesn't Like Mass Transit Systems He's Trying to Build". WIRED. Retrieved December 23, 2017.  240. ^ Toderian, Brent (December 18, 2017). "Elon Musk may say bad things about public transit, but I asked Twitter to share their #GreatThingsThatHappenedOnTransit! As usual, Twitter responded in spades. Here are some of my favourites for posterity - please enjoy & share!". @BrentToderian. Retrieved December 23, 2017.  241. ^ Hamilton-Smith, Lexy (March 23, 2017). "Brisbane's urban planning 'average' and making residents sick, expert says". ABC News. Retrieved December 26, 2017.  242. ^ a b Morris, David Z. (December 16, 2017). "Elon Musk Calls Transit Expert 'An Idiot,' Says Public Transport 'Sucks'". Fortune. Retrieved December 23, 2017.  243. ^ Walker, Jarrett (December 14, 2017). "In cities, @elonmusk's hatred of sharing space with strangers is a luxury (or pathology) that only the rich can afford. Letting him design cities is the essence of elite projection". @humantransit. Retrieved December 23, 2017.  244. ^ Walker, Jarrett (July 31, 2017). "The Dangers of Elite Projection — Human Transit". Human Transit. Retrieved December 23, 2017.  245. ^ Musk, Elon (December 14, 2017). "You're an idiot". @elonmusk. Retrieved December 23, 2017.  246. ^ Musk, Elon (December 14, 2017). "Sorry". @elonmusk. Retrieved December 23, 2017.  247. ^ Musk, Elon (December 14, 2017). "Meant to say "sanctimonious idiot"". @elonmusk. Retrieved December 23, 2017.  248. ^ Krugman, Paul (December 19, 2017). "Elon Musk's idea of a cogent argument: "You're an idiot"http://fortune.com/2017/12/16/elon-musk-public-transport/  ..." @paulkrugman. Retrieved December 23, 2017.  249. ^ FlightAware. "Aircraft Registration N900SK". Retrieved June 25, 2012.  250. ^ Chris Woodyard,"Tesla's Elon Musk buys 007's sub to make it real", USAToday.com, October 18, 2013; accessed November 13, 2013.  251. ^ "Elon Musk and SolarCity Donate Solar Power Project to Coastal Response Center in Alabama". Enhanced Online News. Business Wire. Archived from the original on October 5, 2011.  252. ^ "Elon Musk Donates Solar Power Project to Soma City in Fukushima Prefecture, Japan". BusinessWire.com. Retrieved April 27, 2014.  253. ^ "What it's like to own a Tesla Model S – Part 2 – The Oatmeal". theoatmeal.com.  254. ^ Greg Kumparak. "Elon Musk Donates Million to the Oatmeal's Nikola Tesla Museum". TechCrunch. AOL. Retrieved November 4, 2015.  255. ^ Elon Musk donates M to keep AI beneficial, Future of Life Institute, 2015, retrieved January 20, 2015  256. ^ "Elon Musk Donates M To Make Sure AI Doesn't Go The Way of Skynet". Mashable. 2015. Retrieved June 21, 2015.  257. ^ "Elon Musk". XPRIZE. Retrieved April 19, 2015.  258. ^ Kroll, Luisa (April 19, 2012). "The Giving Pledge Signs on 12 More Wealthy Americans Including Tesla's Elon Musk And Home Depot's Arthur Blank". Forbes.  259. ^ Zdanowicz, Christina (October 8, 2018). "Flint schools are getting safe water fountains thanks to Elon Musk". CNN. Retrieved October 14, 2018.  260. ^ "Tosca Musk profile at". Musk entertainment.  261. ^ Durand Streisand, Elizabeth. "A Look at Elon Musk's Rocky Romantic History". Yahoo. Retrieved May 29, 2017.  262. ^ Junod, Justine (November 14, 2012). "Elon Musk: Triumph of His Will". Esquire. Retrieved November 28, 2012.  263. ^ Justine Musk | TEDxUIUC (posted June 1, 2017)  264. ^ Elliott, Hannah. "Elon Musk – In Photos: Forbes Life Elon Musk". Forbes. Retrieved November 4, 2015.  265. ^ Lai, Jennifer (January 19, 2012). "Elon Musk Divorce: Announces Split From Talulah Riley On Twitter". The Huffington Post. Retrieved July 23, 2013.  266. ^ "Elon Musk Divorce: Announces Split From Talulah Riley On Twitter", The Huffington Post, January 19, 2012.  267. ^ "Elon Musk and Talulah Riley divorce for a second time". The Telegraph. 2016-10-22. ISSN 0307-1235. Retrieved 2018-06-29.  268. ^ "Billionaire Elon Musk's wife files for divorce", Mashable.com, March 21, 2016.  269. ^ Kimble, Lindsay (November 18, 2016). "lon Musk and Talulah Riley Are Divorced for a Second Time". People. Retrieved April 24, 2017.  270. ^ Ross, Martha (August 6, 2017). "Tesla CEO Elon Musk breaks up with Amber Heard, report says". The Mercury News. Retrieved August 24, 2017.  271. ^ "Grimes is dating Elon Musk". Consequence of Sound. May 7, 2018. Retrieved May 8, 2018.  272. ^ Elon Musk [@elonmusk] (June 7, 2017). "A little red wine, vintage record, some Ambien ... and magic!" (Tweet) – via Twitter.  273. ^ Matyszczyk, Chris (June 7, 2017). "Elon Musk's strange, strange Ambien tweet". CNET. Retrieved July 9, 2017.  274. ^ Tan, Yvette (June 7, 2017). "Elon Musk's weird Ambien tweets are back". Mashable. Retrieved July 9, 2017.  275. ^ "Elon Musk smokes weed, talks flamethrowers on Joe Rogan podcast". CNET. 2018-09-07. Retrieved 2018-09-12.  276. ^ PowerfulJRE (2018-09-07), Joe Rogan Experience #1169 - Elon Musk, retrieved 2018-09-12  277. ^ Ohlheiser, Abby (2018-09-07). "Analysis - YouTubers might be just the renewable resource that Elon Musk needs". Washington Post. Retrieved 2018-09-12.  278. ^ "Tesla exodus: Another executive exits as Elon Musk struggles to build mainstream automaker". USA TODAY. Retrieved 2018-09-16.  279. ^ "Elon Musk's Pot-Smoking Podcast Appearance Could Open an Air Force Investigation into SpaceX". Fortune. Retrieved 2018-09-12.  280. ^ "The Air Force is determining 'the appropriate process' for Elon Musk smoking pot". The Verge. Retrieved 2018-09-16.  281. ^ Priorities in Space Science Enabled by Nuclear Power And Propulsion. The National Academies Press. 2006. ISBN 9780309180108. Retrieved November 4, 2015.  282. ^ Chafkin, Max (December 1, 2007). "Entrepreneur of the Year, 2007: Elon Musk". inc.com.  283. ^ "Tesla Roadster". Index. 2007. Archived from the original on January 18, 2012.  284. ^ "Tesla Motors team". Tesla Motors.  285. ^ "SpaceX successfully launches Falcon 1 to orbit". Space Exploration Technologies Corp. 2008.  286. ^ "Connie Awards". National Wildlife Federation. 2008. Archived from the original on June 29, 2009.  287. ^ "Space Community Gathers at National Space Society's ISDC 2009" (Press release). National Space Society. June 17, 2009.  288. ^ Favreau, Jon (April 29, 2010). "The 2010 Time 100". Time.  289. ^ "Barron Hilton and Elon Musk honoured with the highest FAI awards". Fédération Aéronautique Internationale. December 16, 2010. Archived from the original on April 19, 2015. Retrieved March 25, 2015.  290. ^ "Living Legend of Aviation Awards". Kittie Hawk Air Academy. 2010. Retrieved November 4, 2015.  291. ^ Smith, Jacquelyn (February 14, 2011). "America's 20 Most Powerful CEOs 40 And Under". Forbes. Retrieved February 18, 2011. To make this list, you had to be the chief executive of one of the 20 biggest publicly traded companies in the U.S. (as of Feb. 11, by market capitalization) with a CEO aged 40 or under.  292. ^ Dula, Art (June 16, 2011). "Heinlein Prize Honors Elon Musk of SpaceX". The Heinlein Prize. Archived from the original on April 2, 2015.  293. ^ "2012 RAeS Gold Medal". Archived from the original on November 28, 2012.  294. ^ Jonathan Welsh (November 21, 2013). "Tesla's Elon Musk is Fortune Businessperson of the Year". The Wall Street Journal.  295. ^ "IEEE Honorary Membership Recipients" (PDF). IEEE. Retrieved March 25, 2015.  296. ^ "The top 10 business visionaries creating value for the world". Business Insider. Business Insider Inc.  297. ^ "2017 Honourees - Business for Peace Foundation". Business for Peace Foundation. Retrieved 2018-10-19.  298. ^ "Press release: Elon Musk wins the Oslo Business for Peace Award 2017 - Business for Peace Foundation". Business for Peace Foundation. 2017-03-28. Retrieved 2018-10-19.  299. ^ "Justifications for the 2017 Business for Peace Honourees" (PDF). Business for Peace Foundation. 2017. Retrieved 2018-10-19.  300. ^ "The Story of 2017 Honouree Elon Musk" (PDF). Business for Peace Foundation. 2017. Retrieved 2018-10-19.  301. ^ China, American Chamber of Commerce in South. "Two Americans among Winners of 2017 Oslo Business for Peace Award". www.prnewswire.com. Retrieved 2018-10-19.  302. ^ "2017 Business for Peace Award winners named - ICC - International Chamber of Commerce". ICC - International Chamber of Commerce. 2017-03-28. Retrieved 2018-10-19.  303. ^ "Distinguished scientists elected as Fellows and Foreign Members of the Royal Society". Royalsociety.org. Retrieved May 10, 2018.  304. ^ "Elon Musk". Royalsociety.org. Retrieved May 10, 2018.  305. ^ Tate, Ryan. "10 Awkward Hollywood Cameos by Tech Founders". Wired.com. Wired.com. Archived from the original on December 1, 2017. Retrieved December 1, 2017.  306. ^ "Elon Musk SpaceX Tesla on the Simpsons – Business Insider". Business Insider. January 27, 2015. Retrieved April 19, 2015.  307. ^ "Tesla CEO Elon Musk To Appear on Upcoming Episode of the Big Bang Theory - CBS.com". CBS. Retrieved December 4, 2015.  308. ^ Field, Kyle. "Tesla Stars In "Racing Extinction" Documentary". CleanTechnica. Retrieved July 11, 2016.  309. ^ Bova, Dan. "'Why Him?' Director on Elon Musk's Amazing 'I Can't Come to Work Today' Excuse". entrepreneur.com. Retrieved January 29, 2017.  310. ^ "'DC's Legends of Tomorrow' Power Rankings, Week 2: Burn, Baby, Burn – Observer". Observer. January 29, 2016. Retrieved February 7, 2016.  311. ^ Boyle, Alan. "'Star Trek: Discovery' ranks Elon Musk alongside Wright Brothers and warp drive". Geekwire.com. Geek Wire. Archived from the original on October 13, 2017. Retrieved October 13, 2017.  312. ^ Mack, Eric. "How Elon Musk goes down in history with the Wright Brothers". CNET.com. CNET. Archived from the original on October 13, 2017. Retrieved October 13, 2017.  313. ^ Etherington, Darrell. "Elon Musk gets a nod as a space pioneer from 'Star Trek: Discovery'". Techcrunch.com. Tech Crunch. Archived from the original on October 13, 2017. Retrieved October 13, 2017.  314. ^ "Neon Musk by Hat Films". Bandcamp. Retrieved February 6, 2018.  315. ^ McCarthy, Tyler. "Young Sheldon Episode 6 recap: Sheldon discovers physics". Foxnews.com. Fox News. Archived from the original on December 1, 2017. Retrieved December 1, 2017.  Further reading   - Davenport, Christian. The Space Barons; Elon Musk. Jeff Bezos, and the Quest to Colonize the Cosmos. PublicAffairs (2018). ISBN 978-1610398299 - Fernholz, Tim. Rocket Billionaires: Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos, and the New Space Race. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt (2018). ISBN 978-1-328-66223-1 - Vance, Ashlee. Elon Musk: How the Billionaire CEO of SpaceX and Tesla is Shaping our Future. Virgin Books (2015). ISBN 9780753555620. Afterthoughts by Ashlee Vance External links  Elon Muskat Wikipedia's sister projects    - Media from Wikimedia Commons  - News from Wikinews  - Quotations from Wikiquote  - Texts from Wikisource  - Textbooks from Wikibooks  - Resources from Wikiversity  - Data from Wikidata     - Elon Musk on IMDb  - Gimien, Mark (August 17, 1999). "Fast Track". Salon. - Statement of Elon Musk at House Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee Hearings on the Future Market for Commercial Space (2005) - History of PayPal, gawker.com (2007) - Bailey, Brandon (2010). "Elon Musk: Will his Silicon Valley story have a Hollywood ending?". San Jose Mercury News. - "Science Fiction Books That Inspired Elon Musk", MediaBistro.com, March 19, 2013. - "Elon Musk’s Space Dream Almost Killed Tesla" (Bloomberg, 2015) - Appearances on C-SPAN - "An interview with Elon Musk". HobbySpace. August 5, 2003. - "Lift off with Elon Musk". Carte Blanche. September 4, 2005. Archived from the original on September 28, 2007. - Bergin, Chris (January 20, 2006). "SpaceX's Musk and Thompson Q and A". nasaspaceflight.com. - Video interview of Elon Musk by Zadi Diaz of EPIC FU, June 17, 2008. Retrieved April 27, 2014 - Gray, Sadie (January 4, 2009). "Forget the bungalow, retire to Mars". Sunday Times. London, UK. Retrieved April 27, 2014. - Musk profile onInnovation.com. Retrieved April 27, 2014 - An interview at the Founders Showcase, August 5, 2010 - Elon Musk: 'I'm planning to retire to Mars', video interview for The Guardian, August 1, 2010 - 60 Minutes interview; March 18, 2012. - A 20 minute interview about sending humans to Mars with BBC's Jonathan Amos, March 20, 2012 - Elon Musk: The mind behind Tesla, SpaceX, SolarCity, ted.com. Retrieved April 27, 2014 - Musk, Elon (January 6, 2015). "I am Elon Musk, CEO/CTO of a rocket company, AMA!". Reddit.com. Retrieved January 7, 2015. - Elon Musk Powers Up: Inside Tesla's Billion Gigafactory Fast Company, November 2015 - Elon Musk Profiled, Bloomberg Risk Takers (45min) - same video on YouTube - Elon Musk: The future we're building — and boring, ted.com. Retrieved May 7, 2017   - Elon Musk portal - Biography portal - Business and economics portal - Cars portal - Ecology portal - Space portal - United States portal   - Category - WikiQuote - Commons Other products   - Autopilot - Powerwall - Solar roof Facilities   - Tesla Factory (Fremont, CA) - European distribution center (Tilburg, Netherlands) - Gigafactories Gigafactory 1 (Clark, NV) Gigafactory 2 (Buffalo, NY) Gigafactory 3 (Shanghai, China) Europe - Gigafactory 1 (Clark, NV) - Gigafactory 2 (Buffalo, NY) - Gigafactory 3 (Shanghai, China) - Europe - Superchargers Related   - History Timeline - Timeline - Dealership disputes - SolarCity - Tesla Roadster in space    - Category  Test vehicles   - Grasshopper (retired) - F9R Dev1† (destroyed) - DragonFly (retired) Reusable hardware   - First-stage boosters B1019 B1021 B1023 B1029 B1046 B1050 - B1019 - B1021 - B1023 - B1029 - B1046 - B1050 - Cargo capsules C106 - C106 Engines   - Kestrel (retired) - Merlin (1A, 1B, 1C, 1D, Vacuum) - Draco - SuperDraco - Raptor - Methalox thruster Missions   - Falcon 1 launches - Falcon 9 launches - Falcon Heavy launches test flight - test flight - dearMoon project Landing sites   - Autonomous spaceport drone ships - Landing Zones LZ-1 and LZ-2 (Cape Canaveral)) (LZ-4 (Vandenberg) - LZ-1 and LZ-2 (Cape Canaveral)) - (LZ-4 (Vandenberg) Other facilities   - Headquarters and factory (Hawthorne, California) - Rocket development and test facility (McGregor, Texas) - Satellite development facility (Redmond, Washington) - Regional offices (Chantilly, Houston, Seattle, Washington DC) Contracts   - Commercial Orbital Transportation Services (COTS) - Commercial Resupply Services (CRS) - Commercial Crew Development (CCDev) - Commercial Crew integrated Capability (CCiCap) R&D programs   - SpaceX reusable launch system development program - Falcon 9 first-stage landing tests - Red Dragon (cancelled) - SpaceX Mars transportation infrastructure - Starlink Key people   - Elon Musk (CEO, CTO) - Gwynne Shotwell (President & COO) - Tom Mueller (VP of Propulsion Development) Italics indicate unflown vehicles and future missions or sites. † denotes failed missions, destroyed vehicles and abandoned sites.
Spanish proverbs are a subset of proverbs that are used in Western cultures in general; there are many that have essentially the same form and content as their counterparts in other Western languages. Proverbs that have their origin in Spanish have migrated to and from English, French, Flemish, German and other languages.
Sri Aurobindo (born Aurobindo Ghose; 15 August 1872 – 5 December 1950) was an Indian philosopher, yogi, guru, poet, and nationalist. He joined the Indian movement for independence from British rule, for a while was one of its influential leaders and then became a spiritual reformer, introducing his visions on human progress and spiritual evolution.   Aurobindo studied for the Indian Civil Service at King's College, Cambridge, England. After returning to India he took up various civil service works under the maharaja of the princely state of Baroda and became increasingly involved in nationalist politics and the nascent revolutionary movement in Bengal. He was arrested in the aftermath of a number of bomb outrages linked to his organisation, but in a highly public trial where he faced charges of treason, Aurobindo could only be convicted and imprisoned for writing articles against British rule in India. He was released when no evidence could be provided, following the murder of a prosecution witness during the trial. During his stay in the jail, he had mystical and spiritual experiences, after which he moved to Pondicherry, leaving politics for spiritual work.   During his stay in Pondicherry, Sri Aurobindo developed a method of spiritual practice he called Integral Yoga. The central theme of his vision was the evolution of human life into a life divine. He believed in a spiritual realisation that not only liberated man but transformed his nature, enabling a divine life on earth. In 1926, with the help of his spiritual collaborator, Mirra Alfassa (referred to as "The Mother"), he founded the Sri Aurobindo Ashram.   His main literary works are The Life Divine, which deals with theoretical aspects of Integral Yoga; Synthesis of Yoga, which deals with practical guidance to Integral Yoga; and Savitri: A Legend and a Symbol, an epic poem. His works also include philosophy, poetry, translations and commentaries on the Vedas, Upanishads and the Bhagavad Gita. He was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1943 and for the Nobel Peace Prize in 1950.
Stanisław Herman Lem (Polish pronunciation: [staˈɲiswaf ˈlɛm] (; 12 or 13 September 1921 – 27 March 2006) was a Polish writer of science fiction, philosophy, and satire, and a trained physician. Lem's books have been translated into 41 languages and have sold over 45 million copies. From the 1950s to 2000s, he published many books, both science fiction and philosophical/futurological. He is best known as the author of the 1961 novel Solaris, which has been made into a feature film three times. In 1976, Theodore Sturgeon wrote that Lem was the most widely read science fiction writer in the world.   Lem's works explore philosophical themes through speculation on technology, the nature of intelligence, the impossibility of communication with and understanding of alien intelligence, despair about human limitations, and humanity's place in the universe. They are sometimes presented as fiction, but others are in the form of essays or philosophical books.   Translating his works is difficult due to passages with elaborate word formation, idiomatic wordplay, alien or robotic poetry, and puns.
Stefan Zweig (/zwaɪɡ, swaɪɡ/; German: [tsvaɪk]; 28 November 1881 – 22 February 1942) was an Austrian novelist, playwright, journalist and biographer. At the height of his literary career, in the 1920s and 1930s, he was one of the most popular writers in the world.
Stephanie Perkins is an American author, known for her books Anna and the French Kiss, There's Someone Inside Your House, Lola and the Boy Next Door and the New York Times bestseller Isla and the Happily Ever After. Perkins lives in Asheville, North Carolina with her husband Jarrod Perkins.
Stephen Chbosky (/ʃəˈbɒski/; born January 25, 1970) is an American novelist, screenwriter, and film director best-known for writing The New York Times bestselling coming-of-age novel The Perks of Being a Wallflower (1999), as well as for writing and directing the film version of the same book, starring Logan Lerman, Emma Watson, and Ezra Miller. He also wrote the screenplay for the 2005 film Rent and Disney's 2017 live action adaptation of Beauty and the Beast, alongside Evan Spiliotopoulos, and was co-creator, executive producer, and writer of the CBS television series Jericho, which aired from 2006 to 2008. Most recently, he directed the 2017 drama Wonder, starring Julia Roberts, Owen Wilson, and Jacob Tremblay.
Stephen Crane (November 1, 1871 – June 5, 1900) was an American poet, novelist, and short story writer. Prolific throughout his short life, he wrote notable works in the Realist tradition as well as early examples of American Naturalism and Impressionism. He is recognized by modern critics as one of the most innovative writers of his generation.   The ninth surviving child of Methodist parents, Crane began writing at the age of four and had published several articles by the age of 16. Having little interest in university studies though he was active in a fraternity, he left Syracuse University in 1891 to work as a reporter and writer. Crane's first novel was the 1893 Bowery tale Maggie: A Girl of the Streets, generally considered by critics to be the first work of American literary Naturalism. He won international acclaim in 1895 for his Civil War novel The Red Badge of Courage, which he wrote without having any battle experience.   In 1896, Crane endured a highly publicized scandal after appearing as a witness in the trial of a suspected prostitute, an acquaintance named Dora Clark. Late that year he accepted an offer to travel to Cuba as a war correspondent. As he waited in Jacksonville, Florida for passage, he met Cora Taylor, with whom he began a lasting relationship. En route to Cuba, Crane's vessel the SS Commodore sank off the coast of Florida, leaving him and others adrift for 30 hours in a dinghy. Crane described the ordeal in "The Open Boat". During the final years of his life, he covered conflicts in Greece (accompanied by Cora, recognized as the first woman war correspondent) and later lived in England with her. He was befriended by writers such as Joseph Conrad and H. G. Wells. Plagued by financial difficulties and ill health, Crane died of tuberculosis in a Black Forest sanatorium in Germany at the age of 28.   At the time of his death, Crane was considered an important figure in American literature. After he was nearly forgotten for two decades, critics revived interest in his life and work. Crane's writing is characterized by vivid intensity, distinctive dialects, and irony. Common themes involve fear, spiritual crises and social isolation. Although recognized primarily for The Red Badge of Courage, which has become an American classic, Crane is also known for his poetry, journalism, and short stories such as "The Open Boat", "The Blue Hotel", "The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky", and The Monster. His writing made a deep impression on 20th-century writers, most prominent among them Ernest Hemingway, and is thought to have inspired the Modernists and the Imagists.
Stephen Edwin King (born September 21, 1947) is an American author of horror, supernatural fiction, suspense, science fiction and fantasy. His books have sold more than 350 million copies, many of which have been adapted into feature films, miniseries, television series, and comic books. King has published 58 novels, including seven under the pen name Richard Bachman, and six non-fiction books. He has written around 200 short stories, most of which have been published in book collections.   King has received Bram Stoker Awards, World Fantasy Awards, and British Fantasy Society Awards. In 2003, the National Book Foundation awarded him the Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters. He has also received awards for his contribution to literature for his entire oeuvre, such as the World Fantasy Award for Life Achievement (2004), and the Grand Master Award from the Mystery Writers of America (2007). In 2015, King was awarded with a National Medal of Arts from the United States National Endowment for the Arts for his contributions to literature. He has been described as the "King of Horror".
Stephenie Meyer (née Morgan; /ˈmaɪ.ər/; born December 24, 1973) is an American novelist and film producer, best known for her vampire romance series Twilight. The Twilight novels have gained worldwide recognition and sold over 100 million copies, with translations into 37 different languages. Meyer was the bestselling author of 2008 and 2009 in America, having sold over 29 million books in 2008, and 26.5 million books in 2009. Twilight was the best-selling book of 2008 in US bookstores.   Meyer was ranked No. 49 on Time magazine's list of the "100 Most Influential People in 2008", and was included in the Forbes Celebrity 100 list of the world's most powerful celebrities in 2009, entering at No. 26. Her annual earnings exceeded $50 million. In 2010, Forbes ranked her as the No. 59 most powerful celebrity with annual earnings of $40 million.
Stephen Jay Gould (/ɡuːld/; September 10, 1941 – May 20, 2002) was an American paleontologist, evolutionary biologist, and historian of science. He was also one of the most influential and widely read authors of popular science of his generation. Gould spent most of his career teaching at Harvard University and working at the American Museum of Natural History in New York. In 1996, Gould was hired as the Vincent Astor Visiting Research Professor of Biology at New York University, where he divided his time teaching there and at Harvard.   Gould's most significant contribution to evolutionary biology was the theory of punctuated equilibrium, which he developed with Niles Eldredge in 1972. The theory proposes that most evolution is characterized by long periods of evolutionary stability, which is infrequently punctuated by swift periods of branching speciation. The theory was contrasted against phyletic gradualism, the popular idea that evolutionary change is marked by a pattern of smooth and continuous change in the fossil record.   Most of Gould's empirical research was based on the land snail genera Poecilozonites and Cerion. He also made important contributions to evolutionary developmental biology, receiving broad professional recognition for his book Ontogeny and Phylogeny. In evolutionary theory he opposed strict selectionism, sociobiology as applied to humans, and evolutionary psychology. He campaigned against creationism and proposed that science and religion should be considered two distinct fields (or "non-overlapping magisteria") whose authorities do not overlap.   Gould was known by the general public mainly for his 300 popular essays in Natural History magazine, and his numerous books written for both the specialist and non-specialist. In April 2000, the US Library of Congress named him a "Living Legend".
Stephen Tyrone Colbert (/koʊlˈbɛər/ kohl-BAIR; born May 13, 1964) is an American comedian, writer, producer, actor, and television host. He is best known for hosting the satirical Comedy Central program The Colbert Report from 2005 to 2014 and the CBS talk program The Late Show with Stephen Colbert beginning in September 2015.   Colbert originally studied to be a dramatic actor, but became interested in improvisational theatre while attending Northwestern University, where he met Second City director Del Close. Colbert first performed professionally as an understudy for Steve Carell at Second City Chicago, where his troupe mates included Paul Dinello and Amy Sedaris, comedians with whom he developed the sketch comedy series, Exit 57. He wrote and performed on the short-lived Dana Carvey Show before collaborating with Sedaris and Dinello again on the cult television series Strangers with Candy. He gained attention for his role on the latter as closeted gay history teacher Chuck Noblet.   Colbert's work as a correspondent on Comedy Central's news-parody series The Daily Show gained him wide recognition. In 2005, he left The Daily Show to host The Colbert Report. Following The Daily Show's news-parody concept, The Colbert Report was a parody of personality-driven political opinion shows including The O'Reilly Factor, in which he portrayed a caricatured version of conservative political pundits. The series became one of Comedy Central's highest-rated series, earning Colbert an invitation to perform as featured entertainer at the White House Correspondents' Association Dinner in 2006. After ending The Colbert Report, he was hired in 2015 to succeed retiring David Letterman as host of the Late Show on CBS. He hosted the 69th Primetime Emmy Awards in September 2017.   Colbert has won nine Primetime Emmy Awards, two Grammy Awards, and two Peabody Awards. Colbert was named one of Time's 100 Most Influential People in 2006 and 2012. Colbert's book, I Am America (And So Can You!), listed #1 on The New York Times Best Seller list in 2007.
Steve MartinMartin performing in August 2017Birth nameStephen Glenn MartinBorn (1945-08-14) August 14, 1945 (age 73) Waco, Texas, U.S.Medium  - Stand-up - film - television - music - theatre - booksAlma materUniversity of California, Los AngelesYears active1967–presentGenres  - Improvisational comedy - surreal humor - musical comedy - physical comedy - sketch comedy - word play - satireSubject(s)  - American culture - current events - pop culture - human sexualitySpouseVictoria Tennant (m. 1986; div. 1994) Anne Stringfield  (m. 2007)Children1SignatureMusical careerGenres  - Bluegrass - folk revival - pop - country - musical comedyInstruments  - Banjo - vocalsLabels  - Rounder - Warner Bros.Associated acts  - Edie Brickell - Earl Scruggs - Steep Canyon RangersWebsitestevemartin.com   Stephen Glenn Martin (born August 14, 1945) is an American actor, comedian, writer, producer, and musician. Martin came to public notice in the 1960s as a writer for The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour, and later as a frequent guest on The Tonight Show. In the 1970s, Martin performed his offbeat, absurdist comedy routines before packed houses on national tours. Since the 1980s, having branched away from comedy, Martin has become a successful actor, as well as an author, playwright, pianist, and banjo player, eventually earning him an Emmy, Grammy, and American Comedy awards, among other honors.   In 2004, Comedy Central ranked Martin at sixth place in a list of the 100 greatest stand-up comics. He was awarded an Honorary Academy Award at the Academy's 5th Annual Governors Awards in 2013.   While he has played banjo since an early age, and included music in his comedy routines from the beginning of his professional career, he has increasingly dedicated his career to music since the 2000s, acting less and spending much of his professional life playing banjo, recording, and touring with various bluegrass acts, including Earl Scruggs, with whom he won a Grammy for Best Country Instrumental Performance in 2002. He released his first solo music album, The Crow: New Songs for the 5-String Banjo, in 2009, for which he won the Grammy Award for Best Bluegrass Album.
Steven Erikson (born October 7, 1959) is the pseudonym of Steve Rune Lundin, a Canadian novelist, who was educated and trained as both an archaeologist and anthropologist.   He is best-known for his ten-volume spanning epic fantasy series Malazan Book of the Fallen, which began with the publication of Gardens of the Moon (1999) and was completed with the publication of The Crippled God (2011). By 2012 over 1 million copies of the series had been sold worldwide, and over 3 million copies by 2018. SF Site has called the series "the most significant work of epic fantasy since Donaldson's Chronicles of Thomas Covenant," and Fantasy Book Review described it as "the best fantasy series of recent times." Fellow author Glen Cook has called the series a masterwork, while Stephen R. Donaldson has praised him for his approach to the fantasy genre and has compared him to the likes of Joseph Conrad, Henry James, William Faulkner, and Fyodor Dostoevsky.   Set in the Malazan world, Erikson has written a prequel trilogy, The Kharkanas Trilogy, six novellas, and is currently working on a sequel trilogy, The Witness Trilogy, the first book of which, titled The God is Not Willing, is expected to be published in 2019.   His foray into Science Fiction has produced a comedic trilogy, the Willful Child Trilogy, a spoof on Star Trek and other tropes common in the genre, and a First Contact novel titled Rejoice, a Knife To the Heart, published in 2018.
Steven Patrick Morrissey (/ˈmɒrɪsiː/; born 22 May 1959), known mononymously as Morrissey, is an English singer, songwriter and author. He came to prominence as the frontman of the Smiths, a rock band active from 1982 to 1987. Since then, Morrissey has had a solo career, making the top ten of the UK Singles Chart on ten occasions and reaching number one on the UK Albums Chart thrice.   Born in Davyhulme, Lancashire, to a working-class Irish migrant family, Morrissey grew up in Manchester. As a child he developed a love of literature, kitchen sink realism, and pop music. Involved in Manchester's punk rock scene during the late 1970s, he fronted the Nosebleeds, with little success. Beginning a career in music journalism, he authored several books on music and film in the early 1980s. With Johnny Marr he formed the Smiths in 1982, soon attracting national recognition for their eponymous debut album. As the band's frontman, Morrissey attracted attention for his baritone voice, witty and sardonic lyrics, and idiosyncratic appearance; deliberately avoiding rock machismo, he cultivated the aesthetic of a social outsider who eschewed drugs and embraced celibacy. The Smiths released three further studio albums—Meat Is Murder, The Queen Is Dead, and Strangeways, Here We Come—and had a string of hit singles. Personal differences between Morrissey and Marr resulted in the termination of the band in 1987.   In 1988, Morrissey launched his solo career with Viva Hate. This album and its follow-ups—Kill Uncle, Your Arsenal, and Vauxhall and I—all did well on the UK Albums Chart and spawned multiple hit singles. During this time his image began to shift into that of a burlier figure, who toyed with patriotic imagery and working-class masculinity. In the mid-to-late 1990s, his albums Southpaw Grammar and Maladjusted, also charted but were less well received. Relocating to Los Angeles, he took a musical hiatus from 1998 to 2003 before releasing a successful comeback album, You Are the Quarry, in 2004. Ensuing years saw the release of albums Ringleader of the Tormentors, Years of Refusal, and World Peace Is None of Your Business. He released his autobiography in 2013, followed by his first novel in 2015. His eleventh solo studio album, Low in High School, was released in 2017.   Highly influential, Morrissey has been credited as a seminal figure in the emergence of indie rock and Britpop. Acclaimed as one of the greatest lyricists in British history, his lyrics have become the subject of academic study. He has courted controversy with his forthright opinions—endorsing vegetarianism and animal rights, criticising royalty and prominent politicians, and defending a particular vision of English national identity. In a 2006 poll for the BBC's The Culture Show, Morrissey was voted the second-greatest living British cultural icon.
Steven Pressfield (born September 1943) is an American author of historical fiction, non-fiction, and screenplays.
Stormie Omartian (/oʊˈmɑːrtiən/; née Sherk) is an American Christian author. She is the wife of Michael Omartian, with whom she recorded five musical albums before she launched her writing career. She also appeared in several professional theatrical productions in the California area, and appeared later in nationwide television shows as a singer, dancer, and actress, before her marriage.
Styles of Fulton J. SheenReference styleThe Most ReverendSpoken styleYour ExcellencyReligious styleYour ExcellencyPosthumous styleVenerable Radio   A popular instructor, Sheen wrote the first of 73 books in 1925, and in 1930 began a weekly NBC Sunday night radio broadcast, The Catholic Hour. Sheen called World War II not only a political struggle, but also a "theological one." He referred to Hitler as an example of the "Anti-Christ." Two decades later, the broadcast had a weekly listening audience of four million people. Time referred to him in 1946 as "the golden-voiced Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, U.S. Catholicism's famed proselytizer" and reported that his radio broadcast received 3,000–6,000 letters weekly from listeners. During the middle of this era, he conducted the first religious service broadcast on the new medium of television, putting in motion a new avenue for his religious pursuits.  Television   In 1951 he began a weekly television program on the DuMont Television Network titled Life Is Worth Living. Filmed at the Adelphi Theatre in New York City, the program consisted of the unpaid Sheen simply speaking in front of a live audience without a script or cue cards, occasionally using a chalkboard.   The show, scheduled in a primetime slot on Tuesday nights at 8:00 p.m., was not expected to challenge the ratings giants Milton Berle and Frank Sinatra, but did surprisingly well. Berle, known to many early television viewers as "Uncle Miltie" and for using ancient vaudeville material, joked about Sheen, "He uses old material, too", and observed that "f I'm going to be eased off the top by anyone, it's better that I lose to the One for whom Bishop Sheen is speaking." Sheen responded in jest that maybe people should start calling him "Uncle Fultie". Life and Time magazine ran feature stories on Bishop Sheen. The number of stations carrying Life Is Worth Living jumped from three to fifteen in less than two months. There was fan mail that flowed in at a rate of 8,500 letters per week. There were four times as many requests for tickets as could be fulfilled. Admiral, the sponsor, paid the production costs in return for a one-minute commercial at the opening of the show and another minute at the close. In 1952 Sheen won an Emmy Award for his efforts, accepting the acknowledgment by saying, "I feel it is time I pay tribute to my four writers—Matthew, Mark, Luke and John." When Sheen won the Emmy, Berle quipped, "We both work for 'Sky Chief'", a reference to Berle's sponsor Texaco. Time called him "the first 'televangelist'", and the Archdiocese of New York could not meet the demand for tickets.   One of his best-remembered presentations came in February 1953, when he forcefully denounced the Soviet regime of Joseph Stalin. Sheen gave a dramatic reading of the burial scene from Shakespeare's Julius Caesar, substituting the names of prominent Soviet leaders Stalin, Lavrenty Beria, Georgy Malenkov, and Andrey Vyshinsky for the original Caesar, Cassius, Marc Antony, and Brutus. He concluded by saying, "Stalin must one day meet his judgment." The dictator suffered a stroke a few days later and died within a week.   The show ran until 1957, drawing as many as 30 million people on a weekly basis. In 1958, Sheen became national director of the Society for the Propagation of the Faith, serving for eight years before being appointed Bishop of the Diocese of Rochester, New York, on October 26, 1966. He also hosted a nationally syndicated series, The Fulton Sheen Program, from 1961 to 1968 (first in black and white and then in color). The format of this series was essentially the same as Life Is Worth Living.  International cassette tape ministry   In September 1974, the Archbishop of Washington asked Sheen to be the speaker for a retreat for diocesan priests at the Loyola Retreat House in Faulkner, Maryland. This was recorded on reel-to-reel tape, state of the art at the time.   Sheen requested that the recorded talks be produced for distribution. This was the first production of what would become a worldwide cassette tape ministry called Ministr-O-Media, a nonprofit company that operated on the grounds of St. Joseph's Parish. The retreat album was titled, Renewal and Reconciliation, and included nine 60-minute audio tapes.  Evangelization   Sheen was credited with helping convert a number of notable figures to the Catholic faith, including agnostic writer Heywood Broun, politician Clare Boothe Luce, automaker Henry Ford II, Communist writer Louis F. Budenz, Communist organizer Bella Dodd, theatrical designer Jo Mielziner, violinist and composer Fritz Kreisler, and actress Virginia Mayo. Each conversion process took an average of 25 hours of lessons, and reportedly more than 95% of his students in private instruction were baptized.  Fallout with Cardinal Spellman   According to the foreword written for a 2008 edition of Sheen's autobiography, Treasure in Clay: The Autobiography of Fulton J. Sheen, Catholic journalist Raymond Arroyo wrote why Sheen "retired" from hosting Life is Worth Living "at the height of its popularity ...  an estimated 30 million viewers and listeners tuned in each week." Arroyo wrote that "It is widely believed that Cardinal Spellman drove Sheen off the air."   Arroyo relates that "In the late 1950s the government donated millions of dollars' worth of powdered milk to the New York Archdiocese. In turn, Cardinal Spellman handed that milk over to the Society for the Propagation of the Faith to distribute to the poor of the world. On at least one occasion he demanded that the director of the Society, Bishop Sheen, pay the Archdiocese for the donated milk. He wanted millions of dollars. Despite Cardinal Spellman's considerable powers of persuasion and influence in Rome, Sheen refused. These were funds donated by the public to the missions, funds Sheen himself had personally contributed to and raised over the airwaves. He felt an obligation to protect them, even from the itchy fingers of his own Cardinal."   Spellman later took the issue directly to Pope Pius XII, pleading his case with Sheen present. The Pope sided with Sheen. Spellman later confronted Sheen, stating, "I will get even with you. It may take six months or ten years, but everyone will know what you are like." Besides being pressured to leave television Sheen also "found himself unwelcome in the churches of New York City. Spellman cancelled Sheen's annual Good Friday sermons at St. Patrick's Cathedral and discouraged clergy from befriending the Bishop." In 1966 Spellman had Sheen reassigned to Rochester, New York, and caused his leadership at the Society for the Propagation of the Faith to be terminated (a position he had held for 16 years and raised hundreds of millions of dollars for, to which he had personally donated 10 million dollars of his own earnings). On December 2, 1967, Spellman died in New York City.   Sheen never talked about the situation, only making vague references to his "trials both inside and outside the Church." He even went so far as to praise Spellman in his autobiography.  Later years   While serving in Rochester, he created the Sheen Ecumenical Housing Foundation, which survives to this day. He also spent some of his energy on political activities such as his denunciation of the Vietnam War in late July 1967. On Ash Wednesday in 1967, Sheen decided to give St. Bridget's Parish building to the federal Housing and Urban Development program. Sheen wanted to let the government use it for black Americans. There was a protest since Sheen acted on his own accord. The pastor disagreed, saying that "There is enough empty property around without taking down the church and the school." The deal fell through.   On October 15, 1969, one month after celebrating his 50th anniversary as a priest, Sheen resigned from his position and was then appointed Archbishop of the titular see of Newport, Wales (Latin: Neoportus) by Pope Paul VI. This ceremonial position gave him a promotion to Archbishop and thus helped to allow Sheen to continue his extensive writing. Archbishop Sheen wrote 73 books and numerous articles and columns.   On October 2, 1979, two months before Sheen's death, Pope John Paul II visited St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York City and embraced Sheen, saying, "You have written and spoken well of the Lord Jesus Christ. You are a loyal son of the Church."  Death and legacy   Beginning in 1977 Sheen "underwent a series of surgeries that sapped his strength and even made preaching difficult." Throughout this time he continued to work on his autobiography, parts of which "were recited from his sickbed as he clutched a crucifix." Soon after an open-heart surgery at Lenox Hill Hospital, Sheen died on December 9, 1979 in his private chapel in the presence of the Blessed Sacrament. He is interred in the crypt of St. Patrick's Cathedral, near the deceased Archbishops of New York.   The official repository of Sheen's papers, television programs, and other materials is at St. Bernard's School of Theology and Ministry in Rochester, New York.   Joseph Campanella introduces the re-runs of Sheen's various programs that are aired on EWTN. Reruns are also aired on Trinity Broadcasting Network. In addition to his television appearances, Sheen can also be heard on Relevant Radio.   The Fulton J. Sheen Museum, which is operated by the Roman Catholic Diocese of Peoria and located in Peoria, Illinois, houses the largest collection of Sheen's personal items in five collections. The Museum is located just one block south of Cathedral of Saint Mary of the Immaculate Conception where Sheen served as an altar boy, had his first communion and confirmation, was ordained and celebrated his first Mass. Another museum is located in Sheen's home town of El Paso, Illinois. This museum contains various Sheen artifacts, but is not connected to the Roman Catholic Diocese of Peoria.   The Sheen Center for Thought and Culture in Bleecker Street, Lower Manhattan, is named after him.   Actor Ramón Gerard Antonio Estévez adopted the stage name of Martin Sheen partly in admiration of Fulton J. Sheen.  Cause for canonization   The Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen Foundation was formed in 1998 by Gregory J. Ladd and Lawrence F. Hickey to make known the life of the archbishop. The foundation approached Cardinal John O'Connor of the Archdiocese of New York for permission to commence the process of for cause, which was under the authority of the Diocese of Peoria.   In 2002, Sheen's Cause for Canonization as a saint was officially opened by Bishop Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C., Bishop of the Diocese of Peoria, and from then on Sheen was referred to as a "Servant of God."   On February 2, 2008, the archives of Sheen were sealed at a ceremony during a special Mass at the Cathedral of Saint Mary of the Immaculate Conception in Peoria, Illinois, where the diocese was sponsoring his canonization.   In November 2010, it was announced that the cause would be paused due to a disagreement with the Archdiocese of New York upon an unsettled debate concerning the return of Sheen's remains to the Diocese of Peoria.   In 2009, the diocesan phase of the investigation came to an end, and the records were sent to the Congregation for the Causes of Saints at the Vatican in Rome.   On June 28, 2012, the Vatican announced officially that it had recognized Sheen's life as one of "heroic virtue". This is a major step towards an eventual beatification. From this moment on, Sheen is styled "Venerable Servant of God."   According to Catholic News Service and The Catholic Post (the official newspaper of the Peoria Diocese), the case of a boy who as an infant had no discernible pulse for 61 minutes (who was about to be declared dead at OSF Saint Francis Medical Center in Peoria, Illinois, as a stillborn infant) and yet allegedly still lived to be healthy – without physical or mental impairment – is in the preliminary stages of being investigated as the possible miracle needed for Archbishop Sheen's potential beatification. If the miracle is approved at the diocesan level, and then by the Congregation for the Causes of Saints at the Vatican (being both medically unexplainable and directly attributable theologically to Sheen's intercession according to expert panels in both subject areas), then beatification may proceed. Another such miracle would be required for him to be considered for canonization as a saint.   On September 7, 2011, a tribunal of inquiry was sworn in to investigate the alleged healing. During a special Mass at 10:30 am on Sunday, December 11, 2011, at St. Mary's Cathedral in Peoria, the documentation gathered by the tribunal over nearly three months was boxed and sealed. It will then be shipped to the Vatican for consideration by the Congregation for the Causes of Saints, concluding the diocesan tribunal's work – which makes up much of the diocese's work on the project.   On Sunday, September 9, 2012, a Mass of Thanksgiving and banquet was held at St. Mary's Cathedral and the Spalding Pastoral Center in celebration of the advancement of Archbishop Sheen's cause, with Bishop Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C., and his predecessor as Bishop of Peoria, Newark Archbishop John J. Myers (celebrating his 25th anniversary of episcopal ordination), in attendance, along with many of the clergy and religious of the diocese and from around the country. Copies of the "Positio", or the book detailing the documentation behind his cause, were presented to Archbishop Myers, to representatives of the Church in other states, and to a delegate from the Archdiocese of Chicago, and to other patrons and supporters of his cause. According to statements made during the service by clergy connected to the Cause, the medical and theological study of the potential miracles needed for his beatification and canonization is currently well underway and at least one is seriously being considered. Due to new rules under Pope Benedict XVI stating that a beatification should occur locally, ideally in the candidate's home Diocese (which is usually but not always the Diocese that sponsors the Cause), it would likely take place in Peoria, the first there. Should he be beatified and canonized, he would be among a select few natives of the U.S. to hold that distinction.   On Thursday, March 6, 2014 it was announced that a Vatican panel of medical experts could not determine a natural cause to a miracle attributed to Sheen; this is a major step on the road to beatification. The miracle: the reviving of the stillborn baby mentioned above who survived intact, so far, without having a detectable pulse at his birth for a lengthy period without explanation. For 61 minutes, while his mother prayed for Fulton Sheen's intercession, the child did not breathe and only took his first breaths as doctors were calling his time of death. Doctors predicted the child to grow up with terrifying effects like organ failure and cerebral palsy. After the child's first 5 months, he was considered to be a normally healthy child. The case will now go on to the Congregation for the Causes of the Saints, for further review. If the Congregation approves the miracle, then the cause will be passed on to Pope Francis, who will ultimately decide and sign and publish documentation on whether or not to beatify Archbishop Sheen, granting him the title of "Blessed".   On Tuesday, June 17, 2014, a seven-member panel of theologians that advises the Congregation for the Causes of Saints also unanimously agreed that the aforementioned case could be attributable to the baby boy's parents asking for Archbishop Sheen's intercession during the 61-minute period. Having been evaluated and approved by both medical and theological examination, the case now will be examined by the Bishops and Cardinals who are members and officials of the Congregation, who must give their approval before the case can be forwarded to Pope Francis.  Indefinite suspension of cause for canonization   However, on September 3, 2014, the cause was suspended indefinitely, not for problems with Sheen's moral character or with the miracle investigation, but because the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, within whose territory he is buried, had refused a request by Bishop Jenky of Peoria (who is the Actor, or supervisor, of the cause efforts because of his position as Bishop of Peoria) to have Archbishop Sheen's remains moved to Peoria. This needed to be done so the body could be closely examined and first-class relics taken, both of which are among the final steps that take place before beatification and canonization. The cause for his beatification, per the Vatican's directions, will be archived in the historical records of the Congregation for Saints' Causes. The Peoria Diocese said there would be no further immediate comment.   Normally, sainthood causes take many years to progress to canonization; the exceptions to these cases (causes of martyrs, who only need one miracle for sainthood; or where the Pope has granted a waiver to start the process sooner after death) are quite apart from the norm. Nevertheless, the potential for a long delay was very frustrating to many in the area and beyond who had helped and funded his cause, and to his other supporters.  Possible opportunity for resumption of cause   In a press release on June 14, 2016, it was announced that the surviving family of the late Archbishop has petitioned the Supreme Court of the State of New York to allow the transfer of Sheen's remains to Peoria. The press release claims that "On several occasions, the Archdiocese [of New York] has declared its desire to cooperate with the wishes of the family". If the transfer is approved it is possible the suspension in the cause for canonization may be lifted.   In an action brought in New York Supreme Court, JOAN SHEEN CUNNINGHAM, Petitioner, v. TRUSTEES OF ST. PATRICK'S CATHEDRAL, ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK, Respondents, Index No. 154933/2016, and decided November 16, 2016, Justice Arlene P. Bluth ordered the Archdiocese of New York to grant permission to Sheen's family to disinter Sheen's body finding a good and substantial reason for moving the remains of the decedent. The Court ruled that the Archdiocese's objection, that Sheen would not want the disinterment, was without factual basis as neither his will nor the doctrine of the Catholic Church prohibited his transfer to Peoria. Given that his elevation to sainthood was being blocked until the Diocese of Peoria could petition for canonization the Court found the family had sufficient justification to move his body.   However, on February 6, 2018, the First Department of the New York State Appellate Division, overturned Justice Bluth's decision, ordering an evidentiary hearing be held as whether moving Sheen's body is consistent with his wishes. The Court noted, "[I]t is unclear if Archbishop Sheen's direction in his will to be buried in "Calvary Cemetery, the official cemetery of the Archdiocese of New York" evinces an express intention to remain buried in the Archdiocese of New York, or was merely a descriptive term for Calvary Cemetery." The case is still pending, most likely putting the Cause on hold once again.   However, after re-examining the case and holding the evidentiary hearing, on June 9, 2018, Justice Bluth affirmed her earlier ruling, ruling that: 1.) though it was true that the then-Archbishop of New York, Cardinal Cooke, had made known to Sheen that he could be buried in New York in St. Patrick's, and 2.) that it was true that Sheen had said, in his will (which normally would be binding) that he had wanted to be buried in New York, that, ultimately, Archbishop Sheen would have nevertheless allowed his remains to be transferred to Peoria if he had been able to foresee that it meant that there was a realistic chance he (who enjoyed a good reputation during his lifetime), could be beatified or canonized (as a blessed or saint), and thus be able to intercede and pray for people. Further, it should be noted that the Archdiocese had allowed Peoria to begin the work on his cause for canonization, which eventually would have required at the least a collection of his relics. The Archdiocese can choose whether or not to appeal this ruling. It was praised in Peoria. The cause remains suspended for now.  Selected books authored   - God and Intelligence in Modern Philosophy (1925, Longmans, Green and Co.) - The Seven Last Words (1933, The Century Co.) - Philosophy of Science (1934, Bruce Publishing Co.) - The Eternal Galilean (1934, Appleton-Century-Crofts) - Calvary and the Mass (1936, P. J. Kenedy & Sons) - The Cross and the Beatitudes (1937, P. J. Kenedy & Sons) - Seven Words of Jesus and Mary (1945, P. J. Kenedy & Sons) - Communism and the Conscience of the West (1948, Bobbs-Merrill) - Peace of Soul (1949, McGraw–Hill) - Three to Get Married (1951, Appleton-Century-Crofts) - The World's First Love (1952, McGraw-Hill) - Life Is Worth Living Series 1–5 (1953–1957, McGraw–Hill) - Way to Happiness (1953, Maco Magazine) - Way to Inner Peace (1955, Garden City Books) - Life of Christ (1958, McGraw–Hill) - Missions and the World Crisis (1963, Bruce Publishing Co.) - The Power of Love (1965, Simon & Schuster) - Footprints in a Darkened Forest (1967, Meredith Press) - Lenten and Easter Inspirations (1967, Maco Ecumenical Books) - Treasure in Clay: The Autobiography of Fulton J. Sheen (1980, Doubleday & Co.) - Finding True Happiness (2014, Dynamic Catholic) References    1. ^ a b c d e f "Fulton Sheen Biography and Inspiration". Archbishop Fulton John Sheen Foundation. Retrieved May 16, 2010.  2. ^ Otterman, Sharon (June 29, 2012). "For a 1950s TV Evangelist, a Step Toward Sainthood". The New York Times. Retrieved July 5, 2012.  3. ^ "The Venerable Fulton J. Sheen: a model of virtue for our time". News.va. Pontifical Council for Social Communications. June 30, 2012. Retrieved July 5, 2012.  4. ^ a b c "Archbishop Fulton John Sheen". Catholic-Hierarchy.org. David M. Cheney. Retrieved 21 January 2015.  5. ^ "Biography of Fulton J. Sheen - The Catholic University of America". fulton-sheen.cua.edu.  6. ^ a b "Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen". Retrieved September 14, 2009.  7. ^ Rodgers, Ann (August 29, 2006). "Emmy-winning televangelist on path toward sainthood: Sheen would be 1st American-born man canonized". Chicago Sun-Times. HighBeam Research. Retrieved July 16, 2012.  8. ^ "Fulton J. Sheen". Nndb.com. Retrieved July 7, 2012.  9. ^ a b c d e f g h i "Bishop Fulton Sheen: The First "Televangelist"". Time. April 14, 1952. Retrieved January 21, 2011.  10. ^ Fulton J. Sheen. Treasure in Clay, Ch. 2 "The Molding of the Clay", p. 9, 1980 .  11. ^ a b c "About Fulton J. Sheen". Fulton J. Sheen website. Archived from the original on October 20, 2007. Retrieved December 20, 2007.  12. ^ Sheen, Fulton John. "The Spirit of Contemporary Philosophy and the Finite God." Thèse de doctorat – Université catholique de Louvain, 1923.  13. ^ Encyclopedia of American Religious History. p. 921. ISBN 978-0816066605. Retrieved March 3, 2013.  14. ^ "Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen obituary article from the Catholic Post". Allendrake.com. Retrieved December 30, 2013.  15. ^ "Fulton J. Sheen, Catholic Champion". Catholiceducation.org. Retrieved July 7, 2012.  16. ^ James Hennesey, S.J., American Catholics, Oxford University Press, 1981, 255.  17. ^ James Hennesey, S.J., American Catholics, Oxford University Press, 1981, 280  18. ^ "Radio Religion". Time. January 21, 1946. Retrieved March 30, 2009.  19. ^ St. Fultie, The Next American Saint? Archived May 31, 2012, at the Wayback Machine. Brennan, Phil, www.newsmax.com, December 14, 2004. Retrieved June 11, 2011.  20. ^ Watson, M. A. (1999). "And they said Uncle Fultie didn't have a prayer". Television Quarterly, 30(2), 80–85.  21. ^ a b c d Bearden, Michelle (January 24, 2009). "Mass Today Promotes Sheen For Sainthood". Tampa Tribune. p. 10.  22. ^ Mikkelson, Barbara and David P. "Stalin for Time: Did Bishop Fulton Sheen foretell the death of Stalin?" Snopes.com, August 8, 2007.  23. ^ a b An Enduring Journey of Faith: St. Joseph's Parish, Pomfret, Maryland, 2012 by St. Joseph's Church, Pomfret, Maryland, Harambee Productions, Inc. White Plains, Maryland 150 p  24. ^ Briton Hadden; Henry Robinson Luce (1952). Time. Time Incorporated. p. 52.  25. ^ a b c d e f g h i j Fulton J. Sheen (2008). Treasure in Clay: The Autobiography of Fulton J. Sheen. Doubleday.  26. ^ James H. Willbanks, "Vietnam War Almanac", Facts on File, Inc. (2009), p. 215.  27. ^ John T. McGreevy, Parish Boundaries: The Catholic Encounter with Race in the Twentieth-Century Urban North, University of Chicago Press, 1996, 242  28. ^ "The Cause for Canonization". The Catholic University of America. Retrieved 2015-07-05.  29. ^ "Biography of Fulton J. Sheen – The Catholic University of America". Retrieved 2017-01-04.  30. ^ The Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen Archives accessed August 15, 2007 Archived February 28, 2007, at the Wayback Machine.  31. ^ "Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen Museum". Catholic Diocese of Peoria.  32. ^ "Archbishop Fulton John Sheen Spiritual Center". Archbishopfultonsheencentre.com. Retrieved December 30, 2013.  33. ^ "Archbishop Fulton Sheen, Sheen Center for Thought and Culture  34. ^ [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h_oMkQY2ico Martin Sheen on Why He Changed His Name & Emilio Estevez on Why He Didn't Change His Name. The Hudson Union. Youtube (evidently excerpted from Inside the Actors Studio, 2003.  35. ^ "The Director's Corner – Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen". Archbishopsheencause.org. Retrieved July 7, 2012.  36. ^ Decrees of the Congregation for the Causes of the Saints, June 28, 2012. Vatican Information Service, June 28, 2012.  37. ^ "The Catholic Post : Article – Entries sought for sacred art show planned in Rock Island". Cdop.org. January 29, 2012. Retrieved July 7, 2012.  38. ^ "Archbishop Fulton Sheen Foundation". Fultonsheen.blogspot.com. Retrieved December 30, 2013.  39. ^ "Celebrate Sheen!". Celebrate Sheen!. Retrieved December 30, 2013.  40. ^ "World needs Archbishop Sheen's example of faith, virtue, says homilist". Catholic News Service. September 11, 2012. Archived from the original on January 18, 2013. Retrieved December 30, 2013.  41. ^ "Archbishop Fulton Sheen Foundation: Press Release". Archbishop Fulton Sheen Foundation. March 6, 2014. Retrieved March 6, 2014.  42. ^ Teahan, Madeleine. "Fulton Sheen and the Miracle of Baby James." CatholicHeraldcouk. N.p., 1 July 2014. Web. 28 Mar. 2015.  43. ^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on July 14, 2014. Retrieved 2014-07-06.CS1 maint: Archived copy as title (link)  44. ^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on July 14, 2014. Retrieved 2014-07-06.CS1 maint: Archived copy as title (link)  45. ^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on September 9, 2014. Retrieved 2014-09-03.CS1 maint: Archived copy as title (link)  46. ^ "Fulton Sheen sainthood effort halted".  47. ^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on September 4, 2014. Retrieved September 3, 2014.CS1 maint: Archived copy as title (link)  48. ^ STAFF, PANTAGRAPH. "Sheen sainthood process suspended".  49. ^ Foundation, Archbishop Fulton Sheen (2016-06-14). "Press Release June 14, 2016". Archbishop Fulton Sheen Foundation. Retrieved 2016-06-30.  50. ^ "Cunningham v. Trustees".  51. ^ "Matter of Cunningham v Trustees of St. Patrick's Cathedral (2018 NY Slip Op 00815)". www.courts.state.ny.us.  52. ^ "Civil court rules Fulton Sheen's remains can go to Peoria".  53. ^ This book was Sheen's response to Rabbi Joshua L. Liebman's 1946 best-seller Peace of Mind.  Further reading   - Reeves, Thomas C. (2001), America's Bishop. The Life and Times of Fulton J. Sheen. Encounter Books, San Francisco. - Riley, Kathleen L.(2004), "Fulton J. Sheen: An American Catholic Response to the Twentieth Century". St/Paul's/AlbaHouse, Staten Island. - Sherwood, Timothy H. (2010), The Preaching of Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen: The Gospel Meets the Cold War. Lexington Books. 137 p. - Sherwood, Timothy H. (2013). The Rhetorical Leadership of Fulton J. Sheen, Norman Vincent Peale, and Billy Graham in the Age of Extremes (Lexington Books; 2013) 158 pages - Winsboro, Irvin D. S., Michael Epple, "Religion, Culture, and the Cold War: Bishop Fulton J. Sheen and America's Anti-Communist Crusade of the 1950s", Historian, 71,2 (2009), 209–233. External links   - Official website - The Archbishop Fulton John Sheen Foundation - Library Catalog Record for Sheen's PhD thesis - FBI file on Bishop Sheen - Archbishop Fulton Sheen: 200 talks given by Archbishop Fulton Sheen available in MP3 format, along with streaming video of his Family Retreat in color. - Bishop Fulton Sheen: The First "Televangelist" (April 14, 1952) – TIME Magazine (article) - TIME cover, Fulton J. Sheen, Apr. 14, 1952 - Fulton J. Sheen Spiritual Centre – El Paso, IL - Sheen Mass – Cause for Canonization on YouTube - Diocese of Peoria news release regarding suspension of cause for canonization - Statement of Diocese of New York regarding cause for canonization   - v - t - eChurches in the Archdiocese of New YorkArchdiocese Cathedral  St. Patrick's Cathedral, Manhattan Former Cathedral  Basilica of St. Patrick's Old Cathedral New York City Bronx  Blessed Sacrament Church Church of the Sacred Heart Christ the King's Church Holy Cross Church Immaculate Conception Church Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary Church Our Lady of Mercy's Church Our Lady of Mount Carmel's Church Our Lady of the Nativity of Our Blessed Lady's Church Our Lady of Solace's Church St. Angela Merici's Church St. Anselm's Church St. Ann's Church St. Anthony's Church St. Anthony of Padua Church St. Athanasius's Church St. Augustine's Church St. Barnabas' Church St. Brendan's Church St. Clare of Assisi's Church St. Dominic's Church St. Frances de Chantal's Church St. Frances of Rome's Church St. Francis Xavier's Church St. Gabriel's Roman Catholic Church St. Helena's Church St. Jerome's Church St. Joan of Arc's Church St. John's Church St. John Chrysostom's Church St. Joseph's Church St. Lucy's Church St. Luke's Church St. Margaret Mary's Church St. Margaret of Cortona's Church St. Martin of Tours' Church St. Nicholas of Tolentine Church St. Pius V's Church St. Raymond's Church Church of St. Simon Stock St. Theresa of the Infant Jesus Church SS. Peter and Paul's Church Visitation of the Blessed Virgin Mary Church Manhattan  All Saints Church Annunciation Church New York Chapel of the Resurrection Church of Notre Dame Church of Our Lady of Lourdes Church of Our Lady of Mt. Carmel Church of Our Lady of Sorrows Church of Our Lady of the Scapular-St. Stephen Church of Sts. Cyril & Methodius and St. Raphael Church of St. Catherine of Genoa Church of St. Ignatius Loyola Church of St. Joseph Church of St. Michael Church of St. Vincent Ferrer Church of the Ascension, Roman Catholic Church of the Blessed Sacrament Church of the Epiphany Church of the Good Shepherd Church of the Holy Agony Church of the Incarnation, Roman Catholic Church of the Most Precious Blood Church of the Nativity Chapel of the Resurrection Church of the Sacred Heart of Jesus Church of the Transfiguration, Roman Catholic Corpus Christi Church Holy Cross Church Holy Innocents' Church Holy Name of Jesus Roman Catholic Church Holy Rosary Church Holy Trinity Church Immaculate Conception Church Our Lady of Esperanza Church Our Lady of Good Counsel Church Our Lady of Guadalupe at St. Bernard's Church Our Lady of Lourdes Church Our Lady of the Holy Rosary's Church Our Lady of Pompeii Church Our Lady of Victory Church Our Lady Queen of Martyrs Church Our Saviour Church San Lorenzo Ruiz Chapel St. Agnes' Church St. Aloysius Catholic Church St. Andrew's Church St. Ann's Church St. Anthony of Padua Church St. Benedict the Moor's Church St. Catherine of Siena's Church St. Cecilia's Church and Convent St. Charles Borromeo's Church St. Elizabeth's Church St. Elizabeth of Hungary Church St. Emeric's Church St. Francis of Assisi Church St. Francis Xavier Church St. Gregory the Great's Church St. Jean Baptiste Roman Catholic Church St. John the Baptist Church St. John the Evangelist's Church St. Joseph of the Holy Family Church St. Joseph's Chapel St. Jude's Church St. Lucy's Church Saint Malachy's Roman Catholic Church St. Mark the Evangelist's Church St. Mary's Church St. Monica's Church St. Patrick's Old Cathedral St. Paul's Church St. Paul the Apostle Church St. Peter's Roman Catholic Church St. Rose of Lima's Church St. Stanislaus Bishop and Martyr's Church St. Stephen of Hungary Church St. Teresa's Church St. Thomas More's Church St. Veronica's Church Staten Island  Church of Our Lady Help of Christians Church of Our Lady of Pity Church of Our Lady Queen of Peace Church of Our Lady Star of the Sea Church of the Blessed Sacrament Church of the Holy Family Our Lady of Good Counsel's Church Sacred Heart Church St. Adalbert's Church St. Charles's Church St. Clare's Church St. Mary's Church St. Patrick's Church St. Peter's Church St. Rita's Church St. Roch's Church St. Teresa of the Infant Jesus's Church Dutchess County Blessed Kateri Tekakwitha's Church (LaGrangeville) Church of Regina Coeli (Hyde Park) Church of St. Martin de Porres (Poughkeepsie) Church of St. Mary, Mother of the Church (Fishkill) St. Mary's Church (Poughkeepsie) St. Mary's Church (Wappingers Falls) Church of the Good Shepherd (Rhinebeck) Immaculate Conception Church (Amenia) Immaculate Conception Church (Bangall) Our Lady of Mount Carmel's Church (Poughkeepsie) St. Anthony's Church (Pine Plains) St. Charles Borromeo's Church (Dover Plains) St. Christopher's Church (Red Hook) St. Columba's Church (Hopewell Junction) St. Denis' Church (Hopewell Junction) St. Joachim and St. John the Evangelist's Church (Beacon) St. John the Evangelist's Church (Pawling) St. Joseph's Chapel (Rhinecliff) St. Joseph's Church (Millbrook) St. Patrick's Chapel (Millerton) St. Paul's Chapel (Staatsburg) St. Peter's Church (Hyde Park) St. Sylvia's Church (Tivoli) Orange County  Putnam County  Rockland County  Sullivan County  Ulster County  Westchester County Blessed Sacrament Church (New Rochelle) Church of the Holy Family (New Rochelle) Church of the Resurrection (Rye) Church of St. Augustine (Larchmont) Church of St. Joseph (Bronxville) Church of the Immaculate Heart of Mary (Scarsdale) Immaculate Conception Church (Tuckahoe) Immaculate Conception St. Mary's (Yonkers) Most Holy Trinity Church (Mamaroneck) Our Lady of Mercy Church (Port Chester) St. Gabriel's Church (New Rochelle) St. Vito's Church (Mamaroneck) St. Vito-Most Holy Trinity Parish (Mamaroneck) Eastern-Rite St. George's Church (Manhattan)   - v - t - eEducation in the Archdiocese of New YorkArchdiocese Seminaries  Saint Joseph's Seminary Universities and Colleges  College of New Rochelle College of Mount Saint Vincent Fordham University Iona College Manhattan College Manhattanville College New York City Bronx high schools  Academy of Mount St. Ursula All Hallows High School Aquinas High School Cardinal Hayes High School Cardinal Spellman High School Fordham Preparatory School Monsignor Scanlan High School Mount Saint Michael Academy Preston High School St. Barnabas High School St. Catharine Academy St. Raymond Academy St. Raymond High School for Boys Manhattan high schools  Cathedral High School Convent of the Sacred Heart Cristo Rey New York High School Dominican Academy La Salle Academy Loyola School Marymount School of New York Mother Cabrini High School Notre Dame School Regis High School St. George Academy St. Jean Baptiste High School St. Vincent Ferrer High School Xavier High School Staten Island high schools  Monsignor Farrell High School Moore Catholic High School Notre Dame Academy St. John Villa Academy St. Joseph by the Sea High School St. Joseph Hill Academy St. Peter's Boys High School Dutchess County High schools  Our Lady of Lourdes High School Orange County High schools  John S. Burke Catholic High School Putnam County High schools  Rockland County High schools  Albertus Magnus High School Sullivan County High schools   Ulster County High schools  John A. Coleman Catholic High School Westchester County High schools  Academy of Our Lady of Good Counsel Iona Preparatory School John F. Kennedy Catholic High School Maria Regina High School Sacred Heart High School Salesian High School School of the Holy Child Archbishop Stepinac High School The Montfort Academy The Ursuline School    - Catholicism portal - New York portal  Stages of canonization in the Catholic ChurchServant of God   →   Venerable   →   Blessed   →   Saint Portals Access related topics  - Biography portal - Catholicism portal - New York portal - Saints portal
Sue Monk Kidd (born August 12, 1948) is a writer from Sylvester, Georgia, best known for her 2001 novel The Secret Life of Bees.
Sui Ishida (石田 スイ, Ishida Sui, born December 28) is a Japanese manga artist. He is best known for his dark fantasy series Tokyo Ghoul, a story about a young man named Kaneki Ken who gets transformed into a ghoul after encountering one.
Sunday Adelaja (Russian, Belarusian and Ukrainian: Сандей Аделаджа) is the founder and senior pastor of the Embassy of the Blessed Kingdom of God for All Nations, an evangelical-charismatic megachurch and a christian denomination in Kiev, Ukraine.
Sun Tzu (/ˈsuːnˈdzuː/; Chinese: 孫子; also rendered as Sunzi) was a Chinese general, military strategist, writer and philosopher who lived in the Eastern Zhou period of ancient China. Sun Tzu is traditionally credited as the author of The Art of War, an influential work of military strategy that has affected Western and East Asian philosophy and military thinking. His works focus much more on alternatives to battle, such as stratagem, delay, the use of spies and alternatives to war itself, the making and keeping of alliances, the uses of deceit and a willingness to submit, at least temporarily, to more powerful foes. Sun Tzu is revered in Chinese and East Asian culture as a legendary historical and military figure. His birth name was Sun Wu and he was known outside of his family by his courtesy name Changqing. The name Sun Tzu by which he is best known in the Western World is an honorific which means "Master Sun".   Sun Tzu's historicity is uncertain. The Han dynasty historian Sima Qian and other traditional Chinese historians placed him as a minister to King Helü of Wu and dated his lifetime to 544–496 BC. Modern scholars accepting his historicity place the extant text of The Art of War in the later Warring States period based on its style of composition and its descriptions of warfare. Traditional accounts state that the general's descendant Sun Bin wrote a treatise on military tactics, also titled The Art of War. Since Sun Wu and Sun Bin were referred to as Sun Tzu in classical Chinese texts, some historians believed them identical, prior to the rediscovery of Sun Bin's treatise in 1972.   Sun Tzu's work has been praised and employed in East Asian warfare since its composition. During the twentieth century, The Art of War grew in popularity and saw practical use in Western society as well. It continues to influence many competitive endeavors in the world, including culture, politics, business and sports, as well as modern warfare.
Susane ColasantiSusane Colasanti with a funfetti cupcake on her 40th birthdayBorn (1973-05-01) May 1, 1973 (age 45) New JerseyOccupationAuthorNationalityAmericanEducationAcademic major in Astrophysics/Earth and Space Science, Academic minor in Psychology; Master's degree in Science Education: Teachers of Physics, 7–12Alma materUniversity of Pennsylvania, New York UniversityPeriod2006–presentGenreYoung adult fictionWebsitesusanecolasanti.com   Susane Colasanti is a bestselling author of realistic, contemporary teen novels. Before becoming a full-time author in 2007, Susane was a high school science teacher for ten years. She lives in New York City.
Susan Elizabeth George (born February 26, 1949) is an American writer of mystery novels set in Great Britain.   She is best known for a series of novels featuring Inspector Thomas Lynley, 20 in number as of 2018. The first eleven were adapted for television by the BBC as earlier episodes of The Inspector Lynley Mysteries.
Susan Elizabeth Phillips (born December 11, 1948 in Cincinnati, Ohio) is a romance novelist from the United States. She is the creator of the sports romance and has been called the “Queen of Romantic Comedy.”
Susan Sontag (/ˈsɒntæɡ/; January 16, 1933 – December 28, 2004) was an American writer, filmmaker, philosopher, teacher, and political activist. She mostly wrote essays, but also published novels; she published her first major work, the essay "Notes on 'Camp'", in 1964. Her best-known works include On Photography, Against Interpretation, Styles of Radical Will, The Way We Live Now, Illness as Metaphor, Regarding the Pain of Others, The Volcano Lover, and In America.   Sontag was active in writing and speaking about, or travelling to, areas of conflict, including during the Vietnam War and the Siege of Sarajevo. She wrote extensively about photography, culture and media, AIDS and illness, human rights, and communism and leftist ideology. Although her essays and speeches sometimes drew controversy, she has been described as "one of the most influential critics of her generation."
Suzanna Arundhati Roy (born 24 November 1961) is an Indian author best known for her novel The God of Small Things (1997), which won the Man Booker Prize for Fiction in 1997 and became the biggest-selling book by a non-expatriate Indian author. She is also a political activist involved in human rights and environmental causes.
Suzanne Collins (born August 10, 1962) is an American television writer and author, best known as the author of The New York Times best selling series The Underland Chronicles and The Hunger Games trilogy (which consists of The Hunger Games, Catching Fire, and Mockingjay).
Swami Vivekananda (Bengali: [ʃami bibekanɔndo] (; 12 January 1863 – 4 July 1902), born Narendranath Datta (Bengali: [nɔrendronatʰ dɔto]), was an Indian Hindu monk, a chief disciple of the 19th-century Indian mystic Ramakrishna. He was a key figure in the introduction of the Indian philosophies of Vedanta and Yoga to the Western world and is credited with raising interfaith awareness, bringing Hinduism to the status of a major world religion during the late 19th century. He was a major force in the revival of Hinduism in India, and contributed to the concept of nationalism in colonial India. Vivekananda founded the Ramakrishna Math and the Ramakrishna Mission. He is perhaps best known for his speech which began, "Sisters and brothers of America ...," in which he introduced Hinduism at the Parliament of the World's Religions in Chicago in 1893.   Born into an aristocratic Bengali Kayastha family of Calcutta, Vivekananda was inclined towards spirituality. He was influenced by his guru, Ramakrishna, from whom he learnt that all living beings were an embodiment of the divine self; therefore, service to God could be rendered by service to mankind. After Ramakrishna's death, Vivekananda toured the Indian subcontinent extensively and acquired first-hand knowledge of the conditions prevailing in British India. He later travelled to the United States, representing India at the 1893 Parliament of the World's Religions. Vivekananda conducted hundreds of public and private lectures and classes, disseminating tenets of Hindu philosophy in the United States, England and Europe. In India, Vivekananda is regarded as a patriotic saint and his birthday is celebrated there as National Youth Day.
Sylvia Plath (/plæθ/; October 27, 1932 – February 11, 1963) was an American poet, novelist, and short-story writer. Born in Boston, Massachusetts, she studied at Smith College and Newnham College at the University of Cambridge before receiving acclaim as a poet and writer. She married fellow poet Ted Hughes in 1956, and they lived together in the United States and then in England. They had two children, Frieda and Nicholas, before separating in 1962.   Plath was clinically depressed for most of her adult life, and was treated multiple times with electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). She committed suicide in 1963.   Plath is credited with advancing the genre of confessional poetry and is best known for two of her published collections, The Colossus and Other Poems and Ariel, and The Bell Jar, a semi-autobiographical novel published shortly before her death. In 1982, she won a posthumous Pulitzer Prize for The Collected Poems.
Tahereh Mafi is an Iranian-American, New York Times and USA Today best selling author based in Santa Monica, California. She is known for writing young adult fiction.
Tahir Shah (Persian: طاهر شاه‎, Gujarati: તાહિર શાહ; né Sayyid Tahir al-Hashimi (Arabic: سيد طاهر الهاشمي); born 16 November 1966) is a British author, journalist and documentary maker of Afghan-Indian descent. He lives in Casablanca, Morocco.
Tamara Kučan (Serbian Cyrillic: Тамара Кучан, born 22 August 1989) is a Serbian author. Kučan started writing at the age of 16. Her first novel Beograđanka was published in 2007 by the publishing company ArsLibri. She was admitted to the Association of Writers of Serbia in the year 2010, becoming the youngest member ever admitted.[unreliable source?] Kučan's writing style is compared to Charles Bukowski.  Bibliography   - Beogradjanka (“The Belgrade Girl”, a novel ) (ArsLibri, 2007, Urban Art, 2010) - Made in Beograd (“Made in Belgrade”, a novel ) (Urban Art, 2008) - Kocka (“The Dice”, a novel ) (Urban Art, 2010) - Zauvek (“Forever”, a novel ) (Urban Art, 2012) - Peščani sat (“Hourglass”, a novel ) (Urban Art, 2013) References    1. ^ Started writing at the age of 16. www.goodreads.com/author/show/5559304.Tamara_Kuc_an Retrieved on 2013-11-23.  2. ^ Beograđanka by Tamara Kučan. books.google.co.in. Retrieved on 2013-11-23.  3. ^ Admission to Association of Writers of Serbia.. tracara.com. Retrieved and translated on 2013-11-23.  4. ^ Admission to Association of Writers of Serbia.. radiosarajevo.ba. Retrieved and translated on 2013-11-23.  5. ^ Admission to Association of Writers of Serbia.. Nezavisne Novine (Bosnian daily newspaper). Retrieved and translated on 2013-11-23.  6. ^ Writing Style.. wannabemagazine.com. Retrieved on 2013-11-23.  7. ^ Made in Beograd by Tamara Kučan. domacaknjizara.com. Retrieved on 2013-11-23.  8. ^ Kocka by Tamara Kučan. domacaknjizara.com. Retrieved on 2013-11-23.  9. ^ Zauvek by Tamara Kučan. .dobra-knjiga Retrieved and translated on 2013-11-23.  10. ^ Peščani sat by Tamara Kuča.uzkafu.rs Retrieved on 2013-11-25.  External links   - Tamara Kučan's homepage
Tamora Pierce (born December 13, 1954) is an American writer of fantasy fiction for teenagers, known best for stories featuring young heroines. She made a name for herself with her first book series, The Song of the Lioness (1983–1988), which followed the main character Alanna through the trials and triumphs of training as a knight.   Pierce won the Margaret A. Edwards Award from the Young Adult Library Services Association (YALSA) of the American Library Association in 2013, citing her two quartets Song of the Lioness and Protector of the Small (1999–2002). The annual award recognizes one writer and a particular body of work for "significant and lasting contribution to young adult literature".
Tana French (born 1973) is an American-Irish writer and theatrical actress born in Vermont. Her debut novel In the Woods (2007), a psychological mystery, won the Edgar, Anthony, Macavity, and Barry awards for best first novel. She lives in Dublin. The British online newspaper, The Independent, has referred to her as the First Lady of Irish Crime, "who very quietly has become a huge international name among crime fiction readers."
Tatiana Vedenska (Russian: Татьяна Евгеньевна Веденская; born 15 July 1976) is a widely known Russian writer, and novelist.
Terry Goodkind (born May 1, 1948) is an American writer. He is known for the epic fantasy series The Sword of Truth as well as the contemporary suspense novel The Law of Nines (2009), which has ties to his fantasy series. The Sword of Truth series sold 25 million copies worldwide and was translated into more than 20 languages. Additionally, it was adapted into a television series called Legend of the Seeker, which premiered on November 1, 2008 and ran for two seasons, ending in May 2010.   Goodkind is a proponent of Ayn Rand's philosophical approach of Objectivism, and makes references to Rand's ideas and novels in his works.
Terry Tempest Williams (born 8 September 1955), is an American author, conservationist, and activist. Williams' writing is rooted in the American West and has been significantly influenced by the arid landscape of her native Utah and its Mormon culture. Her work ranges from issues of ecology and wilderness preservation, to women's health, to exploring our relationship to culture and nature.   Williams has testified before Congress on women's health, committed acts of civil disobedience in the years 1987–1992 in protest against nuclear testing in the Nevada Desert, and again, in March 2003 in Washington, D.C., with Code Pink, against the Iraq War. She has been a guest at the White House, has camped in the remote regions of the Utah and Alaska wildernesses and worked as "a barefoot artist" in Rwanda.   Williams is the author of a number of books: Refuge: An Unnatural History of Family and Place; An Unspoken Hunger: Stories from the Field; Desert Quartet; Leap; Red: Passion and Patience in the Desert; The Open Space of Democracy; and Finding Beauty in a Broken World.   In 2006, Williams received the Robert Marshall Award from The Wilderness Society, their highest honor given to an American citizen. She also received the Distinguished Achievement Award from the Western American Literature Association and the 2005 Wallace Stegner Award given by Center of the American West (of the University of Colorado Boulder). She is the recipient of a Lannan Literary Award for Nonfiction and a 1997 Guggenheim Fellowship in creative nonfiction. Williams was featured in Ken Burns' PBS series The National Parks: America's Best Idea (2009) and in Stephen Ives's PBS documentary series The West, which was produced by Burns. In 2011, Williams received the 18th International Peace Award given by the Community of Christ.. In 2014, the Sierra Club honored her with their highest award, the Sierra Club John Muir Award.   Williams is the current Annie Clark Tanner Fellow in the Environmental Humanities Graduate program at the University of Utah and has written for The Progressive. She has been a Montgomery Fellow at Dartmouth College where she continues to teach. She divides her time between Moose, Wyoming and Castle Valley, Utah, where her husband Brooke is field coordinator for the Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance.
Tessa Dare is a New York Times and USA Today bestselling American historical romance novelist. She has authored fifteen novels and novellas and created four different series. In 2012, she won the prestigious Romance Writers of America RITA award for Best Regency Historical Romance for her book A Night to Surrender.
The Bible (from Koine Greek τὰ βιβλία, tà biblía, "the books") is a collection of sacred texts or scriptures. Varying parts of the Bible are considered to be a product of divine inspiration and a record of the relationship between God and humans by Christians, Jews, Samaritans, and Rastafarians.   What is regarded as canonical text differs depending on traditions and groups; a number of Bible canons have evolved, with overlapping and diverging contents. The Hebrew Bible overlaps with the Greek Septuagint and the Christian Old Testament. The Christian New Testament is a collection of writings by early Christians, believed to be mostly Jewish disciples of Christ, written in first-century Koine Greek. Among Christian denominations there is some disagreement about what should be included in the canon, primarily about the Apocrypha, a list of works that are regarded with varying levels of respect.   Attitudes towards the Bible also differ among Christian groups. Roman Catholics, high church Anglicans and Eastern Orthodox Christians stress the harmony and importance of the Bible and sacred tradition, while Protestant churches, including Evangelical Anglicans, focus on the idea of sola scriptura, or scripture alone. This concept arose during the Protestant Reformation, and many denominations today support the use of the Bible as the only source of Christian teaching.   The Bible has been a massive influence on literature and history, especially in the Western World, where the Gutenberg Bible was the first book printed using movable type. According to the March 2007 edition of Time, the Bible "has done more to shape literature, history, entertainment, and culture than any book ever written. Its influence on world history is unparalleled, and shows no signs of abating." With estimated total sales of over 5 billion copies, it is widely considered to be the most influential and best-selling book of all time. As of the 2000s, it sells approximately 100 million copies annually.
The Gospel of Thomas is a non-canonical sayings gospel. It was discovered near Nag Hammadi, Egypt, in December 1945 among a group of books known as the Nag Hammadi library. Scholars speculate that the works were buried in response to a letter from Bishop Athanasius declaring a strict canon of Christian scripture.   The Coptic-language text, the second of seven contained in what modern-day scholars have designated as Codex II, is composed of 114 sayings attributed to Jesus. Almost half of these sayings resemble those found in the Canonical Gospels, while it is speculated that the other sayings were added from Gnostic tradition. Its place of origin may have been Syria, where Thomasine traditions were strong.   The introduction states: "These are the hidden words that the living Jesus spoke and Didymos Judas Thomas wrote them down." Didymus (Greek) and Thomas (Aramaic) both mean "twin". Some critical scholars suspect that this reference to the Apostle Thomas is false, and that therefore the true author is unknown.   It is possible that the document originated within a school of early Christians, possibly proto-Gnostics. Some verses are similar to verses in the Quran. Some critics further state that even the description of Thomas as a "gnostic" gospel is based upon little other than the fact that it was found along with gnostic texts at Nag Hammadi. The name of Thomas was also attached to the Book of Thomas the Contender, which was also in Nag Hammadi Codex II, and the Acts of Thomas. While the Gospel of Thomas does not directly point to Jesus' divinity, it also does not directly contradict it, and therefore neither supports nor contradicts gnostic beliefs. When asked his identity in the Gospel of Thomas, Jesus usually deflects, ambiguously asking the disciples why they do not see what is right in front of them, similar to some passages in the canonical gospels like John 12:16 and Luke 18:34.   The Gospel of Thomas is very different in tone and structure from other New Testament apocrypha and the four Canonical Gospels. Unlike the canonical Gospels, it is not a narrative account of the life of Jesus; instead, it consists of logia (sayings) attributed to Jesus, sometimes stand-alone, sometimes embedded in short dialogues or parables. The text contains a possible allusion to the death of Jesus in logion 65 (Parable of the Wicked Tenants, paralleled in the Synoptic Gospels), but does not mention his crucifixion, his resurrection, or the final judgment; nor does it mention a messianic understanding of Jesus. Since its discovery, many scholars have seen it as evidence in support of the existence of the so-called Q source, which might have been very similar in its form as a collection of sayings of Jesus without any accounts of his deeds or his life and death, a so-called "sayings gospel".   Bishop Eusebius included it among a group of books that he believed to be not only spurious, but "the fictions of heretics". However, it is not clear whether he was referring to this Gospel of Thomas or one of the other texts attributed to Thomas.
The neutrality of this article is disputed. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please do not remove this message until conditions to do so are met. (February 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Some of this article's listed sources may not be reliable. Please help this article by looking for better, more reliable sources. Unreliable citations may be challenged or deleted. (February 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)  (Learn how and when to remove this template message)     Children3Signature Literature portal   Oliver Napoleon Hill (born October 26, 1883 – November 8, 1970) was an American self-help author. He is known best for his book Think and Grow Rich (1937) which is among the 10 best selling self-help books of all time. Hill's works insisted that fervid expectations are essential to improving one's life. Most of his books were promoted as expounding principles to achieve "success".
The neutrality of this article is disputed. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please do not remove this message until conditions to do so are met. (May 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful. (September 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)  (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Siri HustvedtHustvedt at the 2014 Brooklyn Book FestivalBorn (1955-02-19) February 19, 1955 (age 63) Northfield, MinnesotaResidenceBrooklyn, New YorkNationalityAmericanEducationB.A. in history, Ph.D. in EnglishAlma materSt. Olaf College and Columbia UniversityOccupationWriterYears activeSince 1983Known forNovels, poetry, short storiesSpouse(s)Paul AusterChildrenSophie AusterParent(s)Lloyd Hustvedt Ester VeganWebsitewww.sirihustvedt.net    Siri Hustvedt (born February 19, 1955) is an American novelist and essayist. Hustvedt is the author of a book of poetry, six novels, two books of essays, and several works of non-fiction. Her books include: The Blindfold (1992), The Enchantment of Lily Dahl (1996), What I Loved (2003), for which she is best known, A Plea for Eros (2006), The Sorrows of an American (2008), The Shaking Woman or A History of My Nerves (2010), The Summer Without Men (2011), Living, Thinking, Looking (2012), and The Blazing World (2014). What I Loved and The Summer Without Men were international bestsellers. Her work has been translated into over thirty languages.
The neutrality of this article is disputed. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please do not remove this message until conditions to do so are met. (November 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Rick WarrenRick Warren speaking at TED in 2006BornRichard Duane Warren  (1954-01-28) January 28, 1954 (age 64) San Jose, California, U.S.OccupationPastor and authorSpouse(s)Kay WarrenWebsitewww.rickwarren.org   - v - t - e   Richard Duane "Rick" Warren (born January 28, 1954) is an American evangelical Christian pastor and author. He is the founder and senior pastor of Saddleback Church, an evangelical megachurch in Lake Forest, California, that is the sixth-largest megachurch in the United States (including multi-site churches). He is also a bestselling author of many Christian books, including his guide to church ministry and evangelism, The Purpose Driven Church, which has spawned a series of conferences on Christian ministry and evangelism. He is perhaps best known for the subsequent book The Purpose Driven Life which has sold more than 30 million copies, making Warren a New York Times bestselling author.   Warren holds conservative theological views and traditional evangelical views on social issues such as abortion, same-sex marriage, abstinence-only education over the use of condoms to prevent HIV/AIDS, and embryonic stem-cell research.   During the 2008 United States presidential election, Warren hosted the Civil Forum on the Presidency at his church with both presidential candidates, John McCain and Barack Obama. Obama later sparked controversy when he asked Warren to give the invocation at the presidential inauguration in January 2009.
The neutrality of this section is disputed. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please do not remove this message until conditions to do so are met. (August 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Academia and political correctness   Peterson's critiques of political correctness range over issues such as postmodernism, postmodern feminism, white privilege, cultural appropriation, and environmentalism.   Writing in the National Post, Chris Selley said Peterson's opponents had "underestimated the fury being inspired by modern preoccupations like white privilege and cultural appropriation, and by the marginalization, shouting down or outright cancellation of other viewpoints in polite society's institutions", while in The Spectator, Tim Lott stated Peterson became "an outspoken critic of mainstream academia". Peterson's social media presence has magnified the impact of these views; Simona Chiose of The Globe and Mail noted: "few University of Toronto professors in the humanities and social sciences have enjoyed the global name recognition Prof. Peterson has won".   According to his study – conducted with one of his students, Christine Brophy – of the relationship between political belief and personality, political correctness exists in two types: "PC-egalitarianism" and "PC-authoritarianism", which is a manifestation of "offense sensitivity". He places classical liberals in the first type, and places so-called social justice warriors, who he says "weaponize compassion", in the second. The study also found an overlap between PC-authoritarians and right-wing authoritarians.   Peterson considers that the universities should be held as among the most responsible for the wave of political correctness which appeared in North America and Europe. According to Peterson, he watched the rise of political correctness on campuses since the early 1990s, and considers that the humanities have become corrupt, less reliant on science, and instead of "intelligent conversation, we are having an ideological conversation". From his own experience as a university professor, he states that the students who are coming to his classes are uneducated and unaware about the mass exterminations and crimes by Stalinism and Maoism, which were not given the same attention as fascism and Nazism. He also says that "instead of being ennobled or inculcated into the proper culture, the last vestiges of structure are stripped from [the students] by post-modernism and neo-Marxism, which defines everything in terms of relativism and power".  Postmodernism and identity politics  And so since the 1970s, under the guise of postmodernism, we've seen the rapid expansion of identity politics throughout the universities, it's come to dominate all of the humanities – which are dead as far as I can tell – and a huge proportion of the social sciences ... We've been publicly funding extremely radical, postmodern leftist thinkers who are hellbent on demolishing the fundamental substructure of Western civilization. And that's no paranoid delusion. That's their self-admitted goal ... Jacques Derrida ... most trenchantly formulated the anti-Western philosophy that is being pursued so assiduously by the radical left.    — Peterson, 2017     Peterson says that postmodern philosophers and sociologists since the 1960s have built upon and extended certain core tenets of Marxism and communism while simultaneously appearing to disavow both ideologies. He says that it is difficult to understand contemporary Western society without considering the influence of a strain of postmodernism thought that migrated from France to the United States through the English department at Yale University. He states that certain academics in the humanities   ... started to play a sleight of hand, and instead of pitting the proletariat, the working class, against the bourgeois, they started to pit the oppressed against the oppressor. That opened up the avenue to identifying any number of groups as oppressed and oppressor and to continue the same narrative under a different name ... The people who hold this doctrine – this radical, postmodern, communitarian doctrine that makes racial identity or sexual identity or gender identity or some kind of group identity paramount – they've got control over most low-to-mid level bureaucratic structures, and many governments as well.   Peterson's perspective on the influence of postmodernism on North American humanities departments has been compared to Cultural Marxist conspiracy theories.   Peterson says that “disciplines like women's studies should be defunded” and advises freshman students to avoid subjects like sociology, anthropology, English literature, ethnic studies and racial studies, as well as other fields of study he believes are corrupted by the Neo-Marxist ideology. He says that these fields, under the pretense of academic inquiry, propagate unscientific methods, fraudulent peer-review processes for academic journals, publications that garner zero citations, cult-like behaviour, safe-spaces, and radical left-wing political activism for students. Peterson has proposed launching a website which uses artificial intelligence to identify and showcase the amount of ideologization in specific courses. He announced in November 2017 that he had temporarily postponed the project as "it might add excessively to current polarization".   Peterson has criticized the use of the term "white privilege", stating that "being called out on their white privilege, identified with a particular racial group and then made to suffer the consequences of the existence of that racial group and its hypothetical crimes, and that sort of thing has to come to a stop. ... [It's] racist in its extreme". In regard to identity politics, while the "left plays them on behalf of the oppressed, let's say, and the right tends to play them on behalf of nationalism and ethnic pride" he considers them "equally dangerous" and that instead should be emphasized individualism and individual responsibility. He has also been prominent in the debate about cultural appropriation, stating it promotes self-censorship in society and journalism.  Bill C-16 Main article: An Act to amend the Canadian Human Rights Act and the Criminal Code   On September 27, 2016, Peterson released the first installment of a three-part lecture video series, entitled "Professor against political correctness: Part I: Fear and the Law". In the video, he stated he would not use the preferred gender pronouns of students and faculty, saying it fell under compelled speech, and announced his objection to the Canadian government's Bill C-16, which proposed to add "gender identity or expression" as a prohibited ground of discrimination under the Canadian Human Rights Act, and to similarly expand the definitions of promoting genocide and publicly inciting hatred in the Criminal Code.   He stated that his objection to the bill was based on potential free speech implications if the Criminal Code is amended, as he claimed he could then be prosecuted under provincial human rights laws if he refuses to call a transsexual student or faculty member by the individual's preferred pronoun. Furthermore, he argued that the new amendments, paired with section 46.3 of the Ontario Human Rights Code, would make it possible for employers and organizations to be subject to punishment under the code if any employee or associate says anything that can be construed "directly or indirectly" as offensive, "whether intentionally or unintentionally". Other academics and lawyers challenged Peterson's interpretation of C-16.   The series of videos drew criticism from transgender activists, faculty and labour unions, and critics accused Peterson of "helping to foster a climate for hate to thrive" and of "fundamentally mischaracterising" the law. Protests erupted on campus, some including violence, and the controversy attracted international media attention. When asked in September 2016 if he would comply with the request of a student to use a preferred pronoun, Peterson said "it would depend on how they asked me [...] If I could detect that there was a chip on their shoulder, or that they were [asking me] with political motives, then I would probably say no [...] If I could have a conversation like the one we're having now, I could probably meet them on an equal level". Two months later, the National Post published an op-ed by Peterson in which he elaborated on his opposition to the bill and explained why he publicly made a stand against it:    I will never use words I hate, like the trendy and artificially constructed words "zhe" and "zher." These words are at the vanguard of a post-modern, radical leftist ideology that I detest, and which is, in my professional opinion, frighteningly similar to the Marxist doctrines that killed at least 100 million people in the 20th century.   I have been studying authoritarianism on the right and the left for 35 years. I wrote a book, Maps of Meaning: The Architecture of Belief, on the topic, which explores how ideologies hijack language and belief. As a result of my studies, I have come to believe that Marxism is a murderous ideology. I believe its practitioners in modern universities should be ashamed of themselves for continuing to promote such vicious, untenable and anti-human ideas, and for indoctrinating their students with these beliefs. I am therefore not going to mouth Marxist words. That would make me a puppet of the radical left, and that is not going to happen. Period.    Peterson at the University of Toronto in March 2017   In response to the controversy, academic administrators at the University of Toronto sent Peterson two letters of warning, one noting that free speech had to be made in accordance with human rights legislation and the other adding that his refusal to use the preferred personal pronouns of students and faculty upon request could constitute discrimination. Peterson speculated that these warning letters were leading up to formal disciplinary action against him, but in December the university assured him that he would retain his professorship, and in January 2017 he returned to teach his psychology class at the University of Toronto.   In February 2017, Maxime Bernier, candidate for leader of the Conservative Party of Canada, stated that he shifted his position on Bill C-16, from support to opposition, after meeting with Peterson and discussing it. Peterson's analysis of the bill was also frequently cited by senators who were opposed to its passage. In April 2017, Peterson was denied a Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC) grant for the first time in his career, which he interpreted as retaliation for his statements regarding Bill C-16. A media relations adviser for SSHRC said "ommittees assess only the information contained in the application". In response, The Rebel Media launched an Indiegogo campaign on Peterson's behalf. The campaign raised C$195,000 by its end on May 6, equivalent to over two years of research funding. In May 2017, Peterson spoke against Bill C-16 at a Canadian Senate committee on legal and constitutional affairs hearing. He was one of 24 witnesses who were invited to speak about the bill.   In November 2017, a teaching assistant at Wilfrid Laurier University first year communications course was censured by her professors for showing a segment of The Agenda, which featured Peterson debating Bill C-16 with another professor, during a classroom discussion about pronouns. The reasons given for the censure included the clip creating a "toxic climate", being compared to a "speech by Hitler", and being itself in violation of Bill C-16. The censure was later withdrawn and both the professors and the university formally apologized. The events were criticized by Peterson, as well as several newspaper editorial boards and national newspaper columnists as an example of the suppression of free speech on university campuses. In June 2018, Peterson filed a $1.5-million lawsuit against Wilfrid Laurier University, arguing that three staff members of the university had maliciously defamed him by making negative comments about him behind closed doors. Wilfried Laurier asked that the lawsuit be dismissed, saying that it was ironic for a purported advocate of free speech to attempt to curtail free speech.  Gender relations and masculinity   Peterson has argued that there is an ongoing "crisis of masculinity" and "backlash against masculinity" where the "masculine spirit is under assault". He has argued that feminism and policies such as no-fault divorce have had adverse effects on gender relations and destabilized society. He has argued that the existing societal hierarchy that the "left" has characterised as an "oppressive patriarchy" might "be predicated on competence." Peterson has said that men without partners are likely to become violent, and has noted that "enforced monogamy", i.e. societies wherein monogamy is a social norm, decrease male violence. He has attributed the rise of Donald Trump and far-right European politicians to what he says is a push to "feminize" men, saying "If men are pushed too hard to feminize they will become more and more interested in harsh, fascist political ideology." He attracted considerable attention over a 2018 Channel 4 interview where he clashed with interviewer Cathy Newman on the topic of the gender pay gap. Peterson disputed that the gender pay gap was solely due to sexual discrimination. Writing for The New York Times, Nellie Bowles said that most of Peterson's ideas "stem from a gnawing anxiety around gender".  Climate change   Peterson doubts the scientific consensus on climate change. Peterson has said he is "very skeptical of the models that are used to predict climate change". He has also said, "You can't trust the data because too much ideology is involved". In a 2018 Cambridge Union address, Peterson said that climate change will not unite anyone, that focusing on climate change is "low-resolution thinking", and there are other more important issues in the world.  Personal life   Peterson married Tammy Roberts in 1989. They have one daughter and one son.   Politically, Peterson has described himself as a classic British liberal, and has stated that he is commonly mistaken to be right wing. He is a philosophical pragmatist. In a 2017 interview, Peterson was asked "are you a Christian?" and responded "I suppose the most straight-forward answer to that is yes". In 2018, Peterson emphasized that his conceptualization of Christianity is probably not what is generally understood, stating that the ethical responsibility of a Christian is to imitate Christ, for him meaning "something like you need to take responsibility for the evil in the world as if you were responsible for it ... to understand that you determine the direction of the world, whether it's toward heaven or hell". When asked if he believes in God, Peterson responded: "I think the proper response to that is No, but I'm afraid He might exist". Writing for The Spectator, Tim Lott said Peterson draws inspiration from Jung's philosophy of religion, and holds views similar to the Christian existentialism of Søren Kierkegaard and Paul Tillich. Lott also said Peterson has respect for Taoism, as it views nature as a struggle between order and chaos, and posits that life would be meaningless without this duality.   Starting around 2000, Peterson began collecting Soviet-era paintings, displayed in his house as a reminder of, he argues, the relationship between totalitarian propaganda and art, and as examples of how idealistic visions can become totalitarian oppression and horror. In 2016, Peterson became an honorary member of the extended family of Charles Joseph, a Kwakwaka'wakw artist, and was given the name Alestalagie ("Great Seeker"). Since late 2016, Peterson has been on a strict diet consisting only of meat and some vegetables, to control severe depression and an auto-immune disorder, including psoriasis and uveitis. He stopped eating any vegetables in mid-2018.  Bibliography Books   - Peterson, Jordan B. (1999). Maps of Meaning: The Architecture of Belief. Routledge. ISBN 0-415-92222-4. - Peterson, Jordan B. (2018). 12 Rules for Life: An Antidote to Chaos. Penguin Random House. ISBN 0-345-81602-1. Notable journal articles   - Peterson J. B.; Rothfleisch J.; Zalazo P.; Pihl R. O. (1990). "Acute alcohol intoxication and cognitive functioning". Journal of Studies on Alcohol. 51 (2): 114–122. doi:10.15288/jsa.1990.51.114. - Pihl R. O.; Peterson J. B.; Finn P. R. (1990). "Inherited Predisposition to Alcoholism: Characteristics of Sons of Male Alcoholics". Journal of Abnormal Psychology. 99 (3): 291–301. doi:10.1037/0021-843X.99.3.291. - Pihl R. O.; Peterson J. B.; Lau M. A. (1993). "A biosocial model of the alcohol-aggression relationship". Journal of Studies on Alcohol, Supplement. 11 (11): 128–139. doi:10.15288/jsas.1993.s11.128. - Stewart S. H.; Peterson J. B.; Pihl R. O. (1995). "Anxiety sensitivity and self-reported alcohol consumption rates in university women". Journal of Anxiety Disorders. 9 (4): 283–292. doi:10.1016/0887-6185(95)00009-D. - Peterson J. B.; Smith K. W.; Carson S. (2002). "Openness and extraversion are associated with reduced latent inhibition: replication and commentary". Personality and Individual Differences. 33 (7): 1137–1147. doi:10.1016/S0191-8869(02)00004-1. - DeYoung C. G.; Peterson J. B.; Higgins D. M. (2002). "Higher-order factors of the Big Five predict conformity: Are there neuroses of health?". Personality and Individual Differences. 33 (4): 533–552. doi:10.1016/S0191-8869(01)00171-4. - Carson S. H.; Quilty L. C.; Peterson J. B. (2003). "Decreased Latent Inhibition Is Associated With Increased Creative Achievement in High-Functioning Individuals". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 85 (3): 499–506. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.85.3.499. - DeYoung C. G.; Peterson J. B.; Higgins D. M. (2005). "Sources of openness/intellect: cognitive and neuropsychological correlates of the fifth factor of personality". Journal of Personality. 73 (5): 825–858. doi:10.1111/j.1467-6494.2005.00330.x. - Carson S. H.; Quilty L. C.; Peterson J. B. (2005). "Reliability, Validity, and Factor Structure of the Creative Achievement Questionnaire". Creativity Research Journal. 17 (1): 37–50. doi:10.1207/s15326934crj1701_4. - Mar R. A.; Oatley K.; Hirsh J. B.; Paz J. D.; Peterson J. B. (2006). "Bookworms versus nerds: Exposure to fiction versus non-fiction, divergent associations with social ability, and the simulation of fictional social worlds". Journal of Research in Personality. 40 (5): 694–712. doi:10.1016/j.jrp.2005.08.002. - DeYoung C. G.; Quilty L. C.; Peterson J. B. (2007). "Between Facets and Domains: 10 Aspects of the Big Five". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 93 (5): 880–896. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.93.5.880. - Mar R. A.; Oatley K.; Peterson J. B. (2009). "Exploring the link between reading fiction and empathy: Ruling out individual differences and examining outcomes". The European Journal of Communication Research. 34 (4): 407–429. doi:10.1515/COMM.2009.025. - Hirsh J. B.; DeYoung C. G.; Xu X.; Peterson J. B. (2010). "Compassionate Liberals and Polite Conservatives: Associations of Agreeableness With Political Ideology and Moral Values". Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin. 95 (2): 655–664. doi:10.1177/0146167210366854. - Morisano D.; Hirsh J. B.; Peterson J. B.; Pihl R. O.; Shore B. M. (2010). "Setting, elaborating, and reflecting on personal goals improves academic performance". Journal of Applied Psychology. 36 (5): 255–264. doi:10.1037/a0018478. - Hirsh J. B.; Mar R. A.; Peterson J. B. (2012). "Psychological Entropy: A Framework for Understanding Uncertainty-Related Anxiety". Psychological Review. 119 (2): 304–320. doi:10.1037/a0026767. References    1. ^ a b c d e "Jordan B Peterson". ResearchGate. Retrieved November 11, 2017.  2. ^ a b c d e f Tucker, Jason; VandenBeukel, Jason (December 1, 2016). "'We're teaching university students lies' – An interview with Dr Jordan Peterson". C2C Journal.  3. ^ a b "Meaning Conference". International Network on Personal Meaning. July 2016. Archived from the original on November 13, 2017.  4. ^ a b c d e f g h Bartlett, Tom (January 17, 2018). "What's So Dangerous About Jordan Peterson?". The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved January 19, 2018.  5. ^ a b c Lambert, Craig (September 1998). "Chaos, Culture, Curiosity". Harvard Magazine.  6. ^ McCord, Joan (2004). Beyond Empiricism: Institutions and Intentions in the Study of Crime. Transaction Publishers. p. 178. ISBN 978-1-4128-1806-3.  7. ^ Ellens, J. Harold (2004). The Destructive Power of Religion: Models and cases of violence in religion. Praeger. p. 346. ISBN 978-0-275-97974-4.  8. ^ Gregory, Erik M.; Rutledge, Pamela B. (2016). Exploring Positive Psychology: The Science of Happiness and Well-Being. ABC-CLIO. p. 154. ISBN 978-1-61069-940-2.  9. ^ a b c d e Blatchford, Christie (January 19, 2018). "Christie Blatchford sits down with 'warrior for common sense' Jordan Peterson". National Post. Retrieved January 19, 2018.  10. ^ a b c d e Lott, Tim (January 21, 2018). "Jordan Peterson: 'The pursuit of happiness is a pointless goal'". The Observer. Retrieved January 21, 2018.  11. ^ Bill C-16 (2016), clause 2.  12. ^ Weiss, Bari & Winter, Damon (2018), the Renegades of the Intellectual Dark Web, The New York Times. Retrieved November 27, 2018: "The closest thing to a phone book for the I.D.W. is a sleek website that lists the dramatis personae of the network, including Mr. Harris; Mr. Weinstein and his brother and sister-in-law, the evolutionary biologists Bret Weinstein and Heather Heying; Jordan Peterson..."  13. ^ Farrell, Henry (2018), The 'Intellectual Dark Web,' explained: what Jordan Peterson and Ben Shapiro have in common with the alt-right, Vox. Retrieved November 27, 2018: "The thinkers profiled included the neuroscientist and prominent atheist writer Sam Harris, the podcaster Dave Rubin, and University of Toronto psychologist and Chaos Dragon maven Jordan Peterson."  14. ^ Malik, Nesrine (2018),If the 'Intellectual Dark Web' are being silenced, why must we keep hearing about them?, New Statesman. Retrieved November 27, 2018: "If you had struggled to come up with a collective noun for that disparate group of people that ranges from Milo Yiannopoulos to Sam Harris and includes Jordan Peterson...the New York Times has baptised them. They now have a name. The 'Intellectual Dark Web' or 'IDW'..." Murray, Douglas (2018),Inside the intellectual dark web, Spectator Life, The Spectator. Retrieved November 27, 2018 Dickinson, Kevin (2018), Intellectual Dark Web: New movement or just a rebranding of old ideas?, Big Think. Retrieved November 27, 2018 Sommer, Will (2018), Intellectual Dark Web Frays After Jordan Peterson Tweets Critically About Brett Kavanaugh, The Daily Beast. Retrieved November 27, 2018  15. Murray, Douglas (2018),Inside the intellectual dark web, Spectator Life, The Spectator. Retrieved November 27, 2018 16. Dickinson, Kevin (2018), Intellectual Dark Web: New movement or just a rebranding of old ideas?, Big Think. Retrieved November 27, 2018 17. Sommer, Will (2018), Intellectual Dark Web Frays After Jordan Peterson Tweets Critically About Brett Kavanaugh, The Daily Beast. Retrieved November 27, 2018 18. ^ "About", Peterson's official Facebook page  19. ^ a b c d e Bowles, Nellie (May 18, 2018). "Jordan Peterson, Custodian of the Patriarchy", The New York Times. Retrieved August 29, 2018.  20. ^ a b c d e f g h McBride, Jason (January 25, 2017). "The Pronoun Warrior". Toronto Life.  21. ^ a b c Menon, Vinay (March 16, 2018). "Jordan Peterson is trying to make sense of the world — including his own strange journey". Toronto Star. Retrieved May 22, 2018.  22. ^ Brown, Louise (April 17, 2007). "Schools a soft target for revenge-seekers". Toronto Star. Jordan Bernt Peterson of the University of Toronto.  23. ^ Peterson, Jordan B. (March 23, 2017). "I am Dr Jordan B Peterson, U of T Professor, clinical psychologist, author of Maps of Meaning and creator of The SelfAuthoring Suite. Ask me anything!". Reddit. Bernt. Pronounced Bear-ent. It's Norwegian, after my great grandfather.  24. ^ a b c d e f g h Winsa, Patty (January 15, 2017). "He says freedom, they say hate. The pronoun fight is back". Toronto Star.  25. ^ a b c d Brown, Mick (March 31, 2018). "How did controversial psychologist Jordan Peterson become an international phenomenon?". The Daily Telegraph. Retrieved May 22, 2018.  26. ^ a b c d e f Krendl, Anne C. (April 26, 1995). "Jordan Peterson: Linking Mythology to Psychology". The Harvard Crimson.  27. ^ a b c d e f Lott, Tim (September 20, 2017). "Jordan Peterson and the transgender wars". The Spectator. Retrieved November 11, 2017.  28. ^ a b c Staff writer(s) (January 27, 2004). "Former Fairviewite gets TV miniseries". Fairview Post.  29. ^ Staff writer(s) (August 14, 2016). "Biography: Jordan Peterson". University of Toronto.  30. ^ McCamon, Brent (March 28, 2017). "Wherefore Art Thou Peterson?". Convivium.  31. ^ a b Blatchford, Christie (April 3, 2017). "'An opportunity to make their displeasure known': Pronoun professor denied government grant". National Post.  32. ^ a b c d e Chiose, Simona (June 3, 2017). "Jordan Peterson and the trolls in the ivory tower". The Globe and Mail.  33. ^ a b Bowles, Nellie (May 18, 2018). "Jordan Peterson, Custodian of the Patriarchy". The New York Times.  34. ^ a b c Jordan Peterson (August 2015), "Summary and Guide to Jordan Peterson's Maps of Meaning: The Architecture of Belief", Scribd, pp. 2–3, retrieved March 3, 2018  35. ^ "Archive: Maps of Meaning". TVOntario.  36. ^ Law, Katie (January 20, 2018). "Canadian psychologist Jordan Peterson: the 'anti-snowflake' crusader speaks out". London Evening Standard. Retrieved January 20, 2018.  37. ^ Murray, Douglas (January 20, 2018). "The curious star appeal of Jordan Peterson". The Spectator. Retrieved January 20, 2018.  38. ^ Heidenreich, Phil (January 20, 2018). "Edmonton's Citadel Theatre apologizes over how it handled Jordan Peterson event". Global News. Retrieved January 20, 2018.  39. ^ Doward, Jamie (January 21, 2018). "'Back off', controversial professor urges critics of C4 interviewer". The Observer. Retrieved January 21, 2018.  40. ^ Brooks, David (January 25, 2018). "The Jordan Peterson Moment". The New York Times. Retrieved January 31, 2018.  41. ^ a b Lynskey, Dorian (February 7, 2018). "How dangerous is Jordan B Peterson, the rightwing professor who 'hit a hornets' nest'?". The Guardian. Retrieved June 13, 2018.  42. ^ Albrechtsen, Janet (February 24, 2018). "Jordan Peterson: six reasons that explain his rise". The Australian. Retrieved March 3, 2018.  43. ^ Dundas, Deborah (February 9, 2018). "Jordan Peterson's book is a bestseller – except where it matters most". Toronto Star. Retrieved March 3, 2018.  44. ^ Reyna, Xavier Austin (February 23, 2018). "Why Jordan Peterson Is Such a Crucial Figure for the Community". EStudy Breaks. Retrieved March 3, 2018.  45. ^ Psychology Students' Association (PDF), Arts & Science Student Union Anti-Calendar, June 2010, pp. 189, 193, retrieved November 14, 2017  46. ^ a b c Callagahan, Greg (April 19, 2018). "Right-winger? Not me, says alt-right darling Jordan Peterson". The Sunday Morning Herald. Retrieved May 22, 2018.  47. ^ McKeen, Alex (July 4, 2017). "Controversial U of T professor making nearly $50,000 a month through crowdfunding". The Star.  48. ^ "The rise of Patreon – the website that makes Jordan Peterson $80k a month". The Guardian.  49. ^ a b Ziai, Reza (September 17, 2017). "The Curious Case of Jordan Peterson". Areo Magazine.  50. ^ a b Peterson, Jordan B. (June 28, 2018). "The Jordan B Peterson Podcast". JordanBPeterson.com.  51. ^ "The psychological significance of the Biblical stories". ResearchGate. Retrieved November 13, 2017.  52. ^ a b Sixsmith, Ben (November 12, 2017). "Why Are Non-Believers Turning to Their Bibles?". Quillette.  53. ^ "Self Authoring Business record". Craft. Retrieved June 8, 2018.  54. ^ Kamenetz, Anya (December 2013). "Can a Writing Assignment Make You Happier, Healthier and Less Stressed?". O, The Oprah Magazine.  55. ^ a b Kamenetz, Anya (July 10, 2015). "The Writing Assignment That Changes Lives". NPR.  56. ^ Schippers, Michaéla C; Scheepers, Ad W. A.; Peterson, Jordan (2015). "A scalable goal-setting intervention closes both the gender and ethnic minority achievement gap". Palgrave Communications. 1. doi:10.1057/palcomms.2015.14. Retrieved June 13, 2018.  57. ^ a b c d Bandler, Aaron (November 4, 2016). "Q&A with Prof. Jordan Peterson on Genderless Pronouns and the Left's 'PC Game'". The Daily Wire.  58. ^ Selley, Chris (June 3, 2017). "Chris Selley: Jordan Peterson, hero of the anti-PC crowd, just keeps winning". National Post.  59. ^ a b Kaufman, Scott Barry (November 20, 2016). "The Personality of Political Correctness". Scientific American.  60. ^ Spears, Tom (March 10, 2017). "How controversial U of T prof Jordan Peterson became a lightning rod". Ottawa Citizen. Retrieved November 13, 2017.  61. ^ a b c Philipp, Joshua (June 21, 2017). "Jordan Peterson Exposes the Postmodernist Agenda". Epoch Times.  62. ^ Kraychik, Robert (September 4, 2017). "Jordan Peterson Explains Leftism's Core". The Daily Wire. Retrieved November 13, 2017.  63. ^ Berlatsky, Noah (June 12, 2018). "How Anti-Leftism Has Made Jordan Peterson a Mark for Fascist Propaganda". Pacific Standard. Retrieved June 13, 2018.  64. ^ Beauchamp, Zack (May 21, 2018). "Jordan Peterson, the obscure Canadian psychologist turned right-wing celebrity, explained". Vox.  65. ^ Robertson, Derek (April 8, 2018). "The Canadian Psychologist Beating American Pundits at Their Own Game". POLITICO Magazine. Retrieved June 13, 2018.  66. ^ a b Bishai, Graham W. (April 11, 2017). "Drawing Criticism, Jordan Peterson Lectures at 'Free Speech' Initiative". The Harvard Crimson.  67. ^ a b Off, Carol; Douglas, Jeff (November 11, 2017). "U of T profs alarmed by Jordan Peterson's plan to target classes he calls 'indoctrination cults'". CBC.  68. ^ Levy, Sue-Ann (June 29, 2017). "Jordan Peterson: Certain university disciplines 'corrupted'". Toronto Sun.  69. ^ Kraychik, Robert (May 28, 2017). "Dissident Professor Explains Neo-Marxism; "Women's Studies Should Be Defunded"". The Daily Wire.  70. ^ Doherty, Brennan (November 14, 2017). "Jordan Peterson says website plan on hold". Toronto Star. Retrieved November 18, 2017.  71. ^ Gould, Jens Erik; Mottishaw, Leah; Mottishaw, Shane (November 14, 2017). "Jordan Peterson and the media: How one-sided reporting can limit critical thinking". Huffington Post. Retrieved November 18, 2017.  72. ^ Luscombe, Belinda (March 7, 2018). "Jordan Peterson Talks Gun Control, Angry Men and Why So Few Women Lead Companies". Time. Retrieved May 22, 2018.  73. ^ Artuso, Antonella (May 23, 2017). "Prof. Jordan Peterson responds to CBC cultural appropriation fallout". Toronto Sun.  74. ^ a b DiManno, Rosie (November 19, 2016). "New words trigger an abstract clash on campus". Toronto Star.  75. ^ Craig, Sean (September 28, 2016). "U of T professor attacks political correctness, says he refuses to use genderless pronouns". National Post.  76. ^ a b Chiose, Simona (November 19, 2016). "University of Toronto professor defends right to use gender-specific pronouns". The Globe and Mail.  77. ^ Morabito, Stella (October 17, 2016). "Professor Ignites Protests By Refusing To Use Transgender Pronouns". The Federalist.  78. ^ Cumming, Lisa (December 19, 2016). "Are Jordan Peterson's Claims About Bill C-16 Correct?". Torontoist. Retrieved September 11, 2018.  79. ^ Murphy, Jessica (November 4, 2016). "Toronto professor Jordan Peterson takes on gender-neutral pronouns". BBC News.  80. ^ Denton, Jack O. (October 12, 2016). "Free speech rally devolves into conflict, outbursts of violence". The Varsity.  81. ^ a b Kivanc, Jake (September 29, 2016). "A Canadian University Professor Is Under Fire For Rant on Political Correctness". Vice.  82. ^ Peterson, Jordan B. (November 21, 2016). "The right to be politically incorrect". National Post.  83. ^ Yang, Wesley; Stangel, Jake. "The Passion of Jordan Peterson". Esquire. Hearst Communications. Retrieved May 17, 2018.  84. ^ Burke, Brendan (Feb 14, 2017). "Conservative leadership candidate Maxime Bernier reverses support for transgender rights bill". CBC News.  85. ^ a b Chiose, Simona (May 17, 2017). "U of T professor opposes transgender bill at Senate committee hearing". The Globe and Mail.  86. ^ "Jordan Peterson's federal funding denied, Rebel Media picks up the tab". The Varsity. May 1, 2017.  87. ^ Savva, Sophia (May 1, 2017). "Jordan Peterson's federal funding denied, Rebel Media picks up the tab". The Varsity.  88. ^ Artuso, Antonella (May 12, 2017). "Supporters fund U of T professor Jordan Peterson's research". Toronto Sun.  89. ^ Blatchford, Christie (November 10, 2017). "Christie Blatchford: Thought police strike again as Wilfrid Laurier grad student is chastised for showing Jordan Peterson video". National Post. Retrieved November 20, 2017.  90. ^ D'Amato, Luisa (November 14, 2017). "WLU censures grad student for lesson that used TVO clip". Waterloo Region Record. Retrieved November 18, 2017.  91. ^ McQuigge, Michelle (November 17, 2017). "Wilfrid Laurier University TA claims censure over video clip on gender pronouns". The Globe and Mail. Retrieved November 18, 2017.  92. ^ Platt, Brian (November 20, 2017). "What the Wilfrid Laurier professors got wrong about Bill C-16 and gender identity discrimination". National Post. Retrieved November 28, 2017.  93. ^ "Full Text: Apology from Wilfrid Laurier officials over handling of free speech controversy". Global News. November 21, 2017. Retrieved November 25, 2017.  94. ^ "Breaking: President of Laurier issues apology regarding Lindsey Shepherd". The Cord. November 21, 2017. Retrieved November 25, 2017.  95. ^ Platt, Brian (November 21, 2017). "Wilfrid Laurier University's president apologizes to Lindsay Shepherd for dressing-down over Jordan Peterson clip". National Post.  96. ^ "Globe editorial: Why are we killing critical thinking on campus?". The Globe and Mail. November 16, 2017. Archived from the original on November 20, 2017. Retrieved November 20, 2017.  97. ^ "Editorial: Wilfrid Laurier University insults our liberty". Toronto Sun. Postmedia Network. November 15, 2017. Retrieved November 20, 2017.  98. ^ "NP View: Laurier's apology and a petition won't fix the cancer on campus". National Post. November 24, 2017. Retrieved November 25, 2017.  99. ^ Wente, Margaret (November 14, 2017). "What's so scary about free speech on campus?". The Globe and Mail. Retrieved November 18, 2017.  100. ^ Bonokoski, Mark (November 15, 2017). "Bonokoski: Odious censuring of grad student worsened by Hitler reference". Toronto Sun. Retrieved November 18, 2017.  101. ^ Haskell, David Millard (November 15, 2017). "Suppressing TVO video, stifling free speech, is making Wilfrid Laurier unsafe". Toronto Star. Retrieved November 18, 2017.  102. ^ Murphy, Rex (November 17, 2017). "Rex Murphy: University bullies student who dares to play Peterson clip from The Agenda". National Post. Retrieved November 18, 2017.  103. ^ "Jordan Peterson sues Wilfrid Laurier University for defamation". Retrieved September 21, 2018.  104. ^ "Laurier University asks court to dismiss Jordan Peterson lawsuit". Retrieved September 21, 2018.  105. ^ a b c "Opinion: Men are experiencing a crisis of masculinity. The solution? More feminism". NBC News. Retrieved August 9, 2018.  106. ^ "Jordan Peterson, who says men are 'under assault,' is coming to Portland next month". OregonLive.com. Retrieved August 9, 2018.  107. ^ "There is 'a backlash against masculinity'". BBC News. Retrieved August 9, 2018.  108. ^ "Jordan Peterson's Gospel of Masculinity". The New Yorker. Retrieved August 9, 2018.  109. ^ "Jordan Peterson is on a crusade to toughen up young men. It's landed him on our cultural divide". Washington Post. Retrieved August 9, 2018.  110. ^ a b Iqbal, Nosheen (March 19, 2018). "Cathy Newman: 'The internet is being written by men with an agenda'". The Guardian. Retrieved August 9, 2018.  111. ^ "Jordan Peterson debate on the gender pay gap, campus protests and postmodernism". Channel 4 News. Retrieved August 9, 2018.  112. ^ Gillespie, James (2018). "Channel 4's Cathy Newman trolled over gender pay gap". The Sunday Times. Retrieved August 9, 2018.  113. ^ "Jordan Peterson: 'One thing I'm not is naive'". Financial Times. Retrieved August 2, 2018.  114. ^ Earle, Samuel (March 15, 2018). "Outselling the Bible". London Review of Books (blog). Retrieved October 30, 2018.  115. ^ Callaghan, Greg (April 20, 2018). "Right-winger? Not me, says alt-right darling Jordan Peterson". The Sydney Morning Herald. Retrieved August 2, 2018.  116. ^ "Jordan Peterson, Cambridge Union". YouTube (Podcast). The Cambridge Union. 4 November 2018. Event occurs at 20:29–26:56. Retrieved 14 November 2018.  117. ^ Sarah Taylor (8 November 2018). "Jordan Peterson: Climate change won't unite right, left — we don't 'do a damn thing about it'". The Blaze. Retrieved 14 November 2018.  118. ^ Kovach, Steve (August 12, 2017). "Silicon Valley's liberal bubble has burst, and the culture war has arrived". Business Insider. Retrieved November 11, 2017. classic British liberal Jordan B. Peterson  119. ^ "Am I Christian? – Timothy Lott and Jordan B Peterson". Jordan B Peterson clips. YouTube. August 1, 2017. Interviewer: Quick question, are you a Christian? Peterson: I suppose the most straight-forward answer to that is yes, although I think it's… it's… let's leave it at "yes".  120. ^ Kelman, Andrew (January 31, 2018). "Walking the Tightrope Between Chaos and Order—An Interview with Jordan B Peterson". Quillette. Retrieved January 31, 2018.  121. ^ Jago, Robert (March 22, 2018). "The Story Behind Jordan Peterson's Indigenous Identity". The Walrus. Retrieved May 22, 2018.  122. ^ Mance, Henry (June 1, 2018). "Jordan Peterson: 'One thing I'm not is naive'". Financial Times. Retrieved June 13, 2018.  123. ^ Hamblin, James (August 28, 2018). "The Jordan Peterson All-Meat Diet". The Atlantic. Retrieved November 8, 2018.  External links  Jordan Petersonat Wikipedia's sister projects    - Media from Wikimedia Commons  - Quotations from Wikiquote  - Data from Wikidata     - Official website
The new flagship of CMA CGM Group for celebrating her 40th Anniversary, takes the name of Antoine de Saint-Exupéry in commemorate his achievement. In popular culture Film   - Wings of Courage is a 1995 docudrama by French director Jean-Jacques Annaud. The movie was the world's first dramatic picture shot in the IMAX-format, and is an account of the true story of early airmail pilots Henri Guillaumet (played by Craig Sheffer), Saint-Exupéry played by Tom Hulce, and several others. - Saint-Exupéry and his wife Consuelo were portrayed by Bruno Ganz and Miranda Richardson in the 1997 biopic Saint-Ex, a British film biography of the French author-pilot. It also featured Eleanor Bron and was filmed and distributed in the United Kingdom, with scripting by Frank Cottrell Boyce. The film combines elements of biography, documentary, and dramatic Literature   - After his disappearance, Consuelo de Saint Exupéry wrote The Tale of the Rose, which was published in 2000 and subsequently translated into 16 languages. - Saint-Exupéry is mentioned in Tom Wolfe's The Right Stuff: "A saint in short, true to his name, flying up here at the right hand of God. The good Saint-Ex! And he was not the only one. He was merely the one who put it into words most beautifully and anointed himself before the altar of the right stuff." - Comic-book author Hugo Pratt imagined the fantastic story of Saint-Exupéry's last flight in Saint-Exupéry: le dernier vol (1994). - Saint-Exupéry is the subject of the 2013 historical novel Studio Saint-Ex (Knopf, New York / Penguin, Canada) by Ania Szado. In the novel Saint-Exupéry awaits the Americans' entry into World War II, while writing The Little Prince in New York. - Wind, Sand and Stars is an important book to narrator Theo Decker, who re-reads it often, in The Goldfinch (2013) by Donna Tartt. Music   - Saint-Exupéry's death and speculation that Horst Rippert shot him down are the subject of "Saint Ex", a song on Widespread Panic's eleventh studio album, Dirty Side Down. - The Norwegian progressive rock band Gazpacho's concept album Tick Tock is based on Saint-Exupéry's desert crash. - "On the Planet of the Living", a song sung by Eduard Khil, was dedicated to Saint-Exupéry. - "St. Exupéry Blues" - a song by Russian folk-rock band Melnitsa from their album "Alchemy" Theatre   In August 2011, the world premiere of Saint-Ex, a theatrical production of Saint-Exupéry's life, was launched at the Weston Playhouse in Weston, Vermont. The live theatre musical explores in drama and song the aviator-author's early life, the aerial band-of-brothers he flew with at Aéropostale, and the raucous relations between him and his fiery Latin writer-artist wife, born Consuelo Suncín Sandoval Zeceña. The production was written by the husband and wife team of lyricist Sean Barry and composer Jenny Giering, and staged with the assistance of director Matt Castle and set designer Tim Mackabee, plus choreography by Jennifer Turey. The leading cast members include Alexander Gemignani (playing Saint-Exupéry), Krysta Rodriguez (playing his tempestuous wife Consuelo), Cass Morgan (Saint-Exupéry's mother, author Countess Marie de Fonscolombe), plus Charlie Brady (Aéropostale pilot and Air France director Henri Guillaumet). Although the musical production successfully debuted on 25 August 2011, the theatre was soon deluged with two-to-four metres of water generated by Hurricane Irene, which struck the east coast of the United States three days later. After pumping the floodwaters from the building and partially restoring the costumes and stage sets, the musical production "resurfaced" on 2 September.  See also   - Antoine de Saint-Exupéry portal - List of people who disappeared mysteriously General   - Consuelo de Saint Exupéry, wife of Saint-Exupéry - Indexed listing of Wikipedia's Saint-Exupéry articles Literary works in English   - The Aviator - Southern mail - Night Flight - Wind, Sand and Stars - Flight to Arras - The Little Prince - A Sense of Life Media and popular culture   - List of The Little Prince adaptations - Saint-Ex, a 1997 British biopic References Notes    1. ^ Standard modern usage for the spelling of Saint-Exupéry's surname includes the hyphen. But according to French legal documents and his birth certificate, no hyphen is used in his name; thus, it is formally de Saint Exupéry, not Saint-Exupéry. The Armorial de l'ANF, which is a listing of French nobility, mentions the Saint Exupéry (de) family without a hyphen. However, both spellings are found for the author's relatives in the advanced research facility Géopatronyme , for records in the Rhône department for the period 1891–1915, showing two birth certificates with a hyphen and one without. Most of his books were published under his name with a hyphen; memorial plaques, the 50-franc banknote, and the bracelet he was wearing at the time of his death also use the hyphen. The author adopted the hyphen after his arrival in the United States in 1941, as he was annoyed with Americans' addressing him as "Mr. Exupéry".  2. ^ Saint-Exupéry was born at No. 8 rue Peyrat, later rue Alphonse Fochier, and still later renamed as Rue de Saint Exupéry, in Lyon's 2nd arrondissement. He was the third of five children (and nicknamed 'Tonio'), after older sisters Marie-Madeleine ("Biche", b. 26 January 1897–1927), Simone ("Monot", 26 January 1898–1978), and his younger siblings François (1902–1917) and Gabrielle ("Didii", 1903–1986). His father and mother were Viscount Jean de Saint Exupéry (1863–1904; different sources name his father as Jean-Marc or Caesar de Saint Exupéry) and Visountess Marie, née Boyer de Fonscolombe (1875–1972). He was baptized in a Catholic ceremony in his great-aunt's chapel on 15 August 1900 in Saint-Maurice-de-Rémens; his godfather was his uncle, Roger de Saint Exupéry, Earl of Miremont (1865 – August 1914, killed leading his battalion in Maissin, Belgium, during the First World War), and his godmother was his aunt Madeleine Fonscolombe.  3. ^ Hélène (Nelly) de Vogüé (1908–2003), born Hélène Jaunez to a French businessman, became a well known French business executive and also an intellectual fluent in several languages. She married the equally well known French noble, Jean de Vogüé, in 1927 and had one child with him, a son named Patrice. Hélène is referred to only as "Madame de B." in multiple Saint-Exupéry biographies. This occurred due to agreements she made with writers before granting them access to her troves of the author-aviator's writings, which she deposited in the French national archives – from which they will not be released until 2053. It is believed she sought her anonymity in order to protect Saint-Exupéry's reputation, as during the Second World War, the U.S. O.S.S. suspected she was a secret Vichy agent and Nazi collaborator.  4. ^ The aircraft Saint-Exupéry was flying when he crashed in the Sahara was a Caudron C.630 Simoun, Serial Number 7042, with the French registration F-ANRY, with 'F' being the international designator for France, and the remainder being derived from 'ANtoine de saint-exupéRY'.  5. ^ The large home of Charles De Koninck has since been classified as a historical building and has been visited frequently by numerous worldwide personalities from academic, scientific, intellectual, and political circles. Thomas kept a few memories from Saint-Exupéry's visit: "[He was] a great man. He was the aviator. Someone we would get attached to quite easily, who would show interest in us, the kids. He would make us paper planes, drawings. [...] He loved mathematical enigmas." The following year, he published The Little Prince. According to the local legend, Saint-Exupéry received his inspiration from the junior De Koninck, who asked many questions. However, Thomas De Koninck denied this interpretation: "The Little Prince is Saint-Exupéry himself."  6. ^ Although Saint-Exupéry's regular publisher in France, Gallimard, lists Le Petit Prince as being published in 1946, that apparently is a legalistic interpretation possibly designed to allow for an extra year of the novella's copyright protection period, and is based on Gallimard's explanation that sales of the book started only in 1946. Other sources, such as the one referenced, depict the first Librairie Gallimard printing of 12,250 copies as occurring on 30 November 1945.  7. ^ After being grounded following his crash, Saint-Exupéry spared no efforts in his campaign to return to active combat flying duty. He utilized all his contacts and powers of persuasion to overcome his age and physical handicap barriers, which would have completely barred an ordinary patriot from serving as a war pilot. Instrumental in his reinstatement was an agreement he proposed to John Phillips, a fluently bilingual Life Magazine correspondent in February 1944, where Saint-Exupéry committed to "...write, and I'll donate what I do to you, for your publication, if you get me reinstated into my squadron." Phillips later met with a high level U.S. Army Air Forces press officer in Italy, Colonel John Reagan McCrary, who conveyed the Life Magazine request to General Eaker. The approval for return to flying status would be made "...not through favoritism, but through exception". The brutalized French, it was noted, would cut a German's throat "...probably with more relish than anybody".  8. ^ Saint-Exupéry suffered recurring pain and immobility from multiple previous injuries due to his five serious aircraft crashes. After his death, there were also vague suggestions that his disappearance was the result of suicide rather than aircraft failure or combat loss.  9. ^ Various sources state that his final flight was either his seventh, eight, ninth, and even his 10th mission. He volunteered for almost every proposed mission submitted to his squadron, and protested fiercely after being grounded following his second sortie, which ended with a demolished P-38. Saint-Exupéry's friends, colleagues and compatriots were actively working to keep him grounded and out of harm's way, but his connections in high places, plus a publishing agreement with Life Magazine, were instrumental in having the grounding lifted.  10. ^ One ruse contemplated by GR II/33's commanders was to expose Saint-Exupéry "accidentally" to the plans of the pending invasion of France so he could be subsequently grounded. No air force general would countermand such a grounding order and risk Saint-Exupéry's being captured by the Germans if he were forced down. Saint-Exupéry's commanding officer – a close friend of his – was ill and absent when the author took off on his final flight. The commander "bawled out" his staff when he learned that a grounding scheme hadn't been implemented.  11. ^ Saint-Exupéry's P-38, as identified in Aéro-Re.L.I.C.'s detailed crash wreckage recovery report, was an F-5B-1-LO, LAC 2734 variant, serial number 42-68223, which departed Borgo-Porreta, Bastia, Corsica, France on 31 July 1944, at 8h 45m (8:45 a.m.). The report is eight pages long, broken into six technical sections, with five photographs, including an image of an identifying component serial number which verified the wreckage belonged to Saint-Exupéry's aircraft. Although the debris field, one kilometre long and 400 metres wide, was located in May 2000, it took over two years before the French government agreed to the organization's request to permit recovery of the crash debris from the seabed. It is believed that the wide distribution of crash wreckage which left hundreds of parts deposited on the sea floor was created by the Lightning striking the sea's surface at high velocity.  12. ^ Lt. Meredith's remains were not recovered. He is listed on the Tablets of the Missing at the Florence, Italy ABMC Cemetery {ABMC Records}. Lt. Meredith was shot down by Feldwebel Guth of 3./Jagdgruppe 200, the same unit in which Hort Rippert (see below) was serving. Guth's victory claim is recorded in the lists held by the German Bundesarchiv-Militärarchiv. The progress of the interception was followed by Allied radar and radio monitoring stations and documented in Missing Air Crew Report 7339 on the loss of Second Lieutenant Gene C. Meredith of the 23rd Photographic Squadron/5th Reconnaissance Group. The intercepted Mediterranean Allied Air Forces Signals Intelligence Report for 30 July records that "an Allied reconnaissance aircraft was claimed shot down at 1115 [GMT]".  13. ^ The RAF's No. 276 Wing (Signals Intelligence, intercepted Luftwaffe communications) Operations Record Book for 31 July 1944 notes only: "... three enemy fighter sections between 0758/0929 hours operating in reaction to Allied fighters over Cannes, Toulon and the area to the North. No contacts. Patrol activity north of Toulon reported between 1410/1425 hours". Archive sources for Luftwaffe activity over Southern France on 30 and 31 July 1944 are cited in an extensive article on the Ghost Bombers aviation history webpage for the Saint-Exupéry episode.  14. ^ The proposed "suppression" of Rippert's claim due to Saint-Exupéry's stature was also met with skepticism as Luftwaffe pilots tended to immediately report their kills, and the Allies did not broadcast Saint-Exupéry's status as missing for at least two days. After the war, Horst Rippert became a television journalist and led the ZDF sports department. He was the brother of German singer Ivan Rebroff. Rippert died in 2013.  15. ^ The French and English versions of this book (Terre des hommes/Wind, Sand and Stars) differed significantly, with Saint-Exupéry removing sections from the original French version he did not consider appropriate for its targeted U.S. audience, and adding new material specifically written for that group and translated into English, which he could not speak. Although it did not appear in its earliest editions of the English translation, An Appreciation was added to later printings, contributed by Anne Morrow Lindbergh, and earlier published in The Saturday Review of Literature on 14 October 1939.  16. ^ The last paragraph of Flying's book review of A Sense of Life incorrectly states that Saint-Exupéry's last mission was a bombing run, when in fact it was a photo-reconnaissance assignment for the pending invasion of Southern France.  17. ^ In exchange, Lindbergh contributed "An Appreciation" to the later printings of Saint-Exupéry's Wind, Sand and Stars, earlier published in The Saturday Review of Literature on 14 October 1939.  Citations    1. ^ a b Commire (1980), p. 158.  2. ^ Commire (1980), p. 161.  3. ^ a b Schiff (2006), p. xi.  4. ^ Armorial de l'ANF, Editions-du-gui.fr website. Archived 28 September 2007 at the Wayback Machine.  5. ^ a b "1939 Book Awards Given by Critics: Elgin Groseclose's 'Ararat' is Picked as Work Which Failed to Get Due Recognition", The New York Times, 14 February 1940, p. 25. via ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The New York Times (1851–2007).  6. ^ http://www.ctvnews.ca/entertainment/the-little-prince-becomes-world-s-most-translated-book-excluding-religious-works-1.3358885  7. ^ Shattuck, Kathryn. "A Prince Eternal." The New York Times, 3 April 2005.  8. ^ a b Mun-Delsalle, Y-Jean. "Guardians of the Future." The Peak Magazine, March 2011, p. 63. Archived 2 May 2012 at the Wayback Machine.  9. ^ Berton 1997, book jacket and pp. 358–364.  10. ^ Acte de naissance numéro 1703, page 158/257, reg. 2E1847, with marginal note concerning his mariage with Consuelo Suncin (Nice, 22 April 1931). Archives municipales numérisées de Lyon.  11. ^ a b Webster (1994), p. 12.  12. ^ a b Chronology of Antoine de Saint-Exupéry. Archived 1 September 2011 at the Wayback Machine. AntoinedeSaint-Exupéry.com website. Retrieved: 31 October 2011.  13. ^ Commire (1980), p. 154.  14. ^ Schiff (2006), p. ix.  15. ^ Schiff (1996), pp. 61–62.  16. ^ Schiff (1996), p. 80.  17. ^ James, Caryn. "Wings of Courage: High Over the Andes, In Enormous Goggles (1995 Film Review)." The New York Times, 21 April 1995. Retrieved: 28 September 2012.  18. ^ Actualités: Découverte d'un film en couleur sur Saint Exupéry (media release), AntoinedeSaintExupéry.com website (in French). Retrieved: 25 September 2011.  19. ^ Willsher, Kim. "Haunting Film of Petit Prince Author Saint-Exupéry For Auction." Guardian.uk.co, 9 April 2010. On 10 April 2010, a version appeared in print on p. 31. Revised: 13 April 2010.  20. ^ Ibert, Jean-Claude. Antoine de Saint-Exupéry: Classiques de XXe Siècle. Paris: Éditions Universitaires, 1953, p. 123.  21. ^ Schiff (1994), p. 210.  22. ^ Webster, Paul. "Flying Into A Literary Storm: Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, Author of 'The Little Prince', was born 100 years ago. The Celebrations, however, have been marred by his widow's bitter account of their marriage." The Guardian (London), 24 June 2000.  23. ^ "Biography: Nelly de Vogüé (1908–2003)." AntoinedeSaintExupery.com. Retrieved: 23 May 2012.  24. ^ Carrol, Tim. "Secret Love of a Renaissance Man". The Telegraph, 30 April 2007.  25. ^ a b c d e Schiff, Stacy. "Bookend: Par Avion." The New York Times, 25 June 2000.  26. ^ Schiff (1996), p. 258.  27. ^ a b Schiff 1994, pp. 256–267.  28. ^ Schiff (1996), p. 263.  29. ^ Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, Wind, Sand, and Stars, 1939, p127-152  30. ^ Schiff (2006), p. 258.  31. ^ Schiff (1996), p. 331.  32. ^ "French Flier Gets Book Prize for 1939: Antoine de St. Exupery Able at Last to Receive ..." The New York Times, 15 January 1941, p. 6. via ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The New York Times (1851–2007).  33. ^ Saint Exupéry, Consuelo de, tr. by Woods, Katherine. Kingdom of the Rocks: Memories of Oppède, Random House, 1946.  34. ^ Schiff (1996), p. 338.  35. ^ Dunning (1989).  36. ^ Cotsalas (2000).  37. ^ Batten, Geoffrey. "Obituary: Anne Morrow Lindbergh." The Independent, 15 February 2001.  38. ^ Fallen Hero: Charles Lindbergh in the 1940s, WGBS, Public Broadcasting System website. Retrieved from PBS.org 1 February 2013.  39. ^ a b c Milestones, Aug. 14, 1944. Missing in Action: Count Antoine de Saint Exupéry. Time, 14 August 1944. Quote: "Saint Exupery, veteran of over 13,000 flying hours, was grounded last March by a U.S. Army Air Forces officer because of age, was later put back into his plane by a decision of Lieut. General Ira C. Eaker, flew some 15 flak-riddled missions in a P-38 before his disappearance."  40. ^ a b Schiff (2006), p. 379.  41. ^ Brown (2004).  42. ^ Schiff (1996), p. 278.  43. ^ a b Severson (2004), p. 166, 171.  44. ^ a b c Schiff (1996), p. 366.  45. ^ "Le Petit Prince – 1945 – Gallimard." Archived 4 March 2012 at the Wayback Machine. LePetitPrince.net website. Retrieved: 26 October 2011.  46. ^ Schiff (2006), p. 180.  47. ^ Cate (1970).  48. ^ Schiff (2006), p. 423.  49. ^ Schiff (2006), p. 421.  50. ^ Schiff (2006).  51. ^ Buckley, Martin. "Mysterious Wartime Death of French Novelist." BBC News, World Edition, 7 August 2004. Retrieved: 3 August 2012.  52. ^ Schiff (2006), pp. 430–433, 436–437.  53. ^ Schiff (2006), p. 430.  54. ^ Eyheramonno, Joelle. "Antoine de Saint-Exupéry." Slamaj personal website, 22 October 2011. Archived 11 August 2011 at the Wayback Machine.  55. ^ Schiff (2006), pp. 402–451.  56. ^ Schiff (2006), pp. 434–438.  57. ^ a b "Saint-Exupery Committed Suicide Says Diver Who Found Plane Wreckage." Archived 18 March 2017 at the Wayback Machine. Cyber Diver News Network, 7 August 2004. (Note: old link location became a dead link)  58. ^ Lichfield, John. "St Exupery plane wreck found in Med." The Independent, 28 May 2000.  59. ^ a b "France Finds Crash Site of 'Little Prince' Author Saint-Exupery." Europe Intelligence Wire, Agence France Press, 7 April 2004. Retrieved 9 November 2011 via Gale General OneFile (subscription); Gale Document Number: GALE|A115071273.  60. ^ a b Aero-relic.org. "Riou Island's F-5B Lightning, Rhône's Delta, France. Pilot: Commander Antoine de Saint-Exupéry (aircraft crash recovery report)". Aero-relic.org, 12 April 2004. Retrieved: 10 August 2009.  61. ^ "Saint-Exupéry's Plane Found". Toronto: The Globe and Mail, 8 April 2004, p. R6. via ProQuest, 20 September 2011 (subscription); ProQuest Document ID: 1055123471.  62. ^ a b "Antoine de Saint-Exupéry aurait été abattu par un pilote allemand" (in French). Le Monde, 15 March 2008.  63. ^ "Current Exhibitions: IWC-Saint Exupery Space." Archived 2 April 2012 at the Wayback Machine. Association des Amis du Musée de l'Air website, 21 September 2011.  64. ^ a b Rumbold, Richard & Stewart, Lady Margaret. The Winged Life, N.Y.: David McKay Company, 1953. P.214  65. ^ a b Triebel, Claas.The Last Hours of Commander Saint-Exupery, Cicero magazine, 12 April 2008. Retrieved 25 March 2014.  66. ^ a b c d Beale, Nick. "Saint-Exupéry Entre mythe et réalité." Aero Journal, No. 4, 2008, pp. 78–81. More details on the web-site "Ghost Bombers" (see External links)  67. ^ "Saint-Exupéry episode." Ghostbombers.com. Retrieved: 30 September 2012.  68. ^ "Detailansicht".  69. ^ Axel Urbanke: "Green Hearts: First in Combat with the Dora 9", Eagle Editions, 1997, ISBN 978-0966070606.  70. ^ UK National Archives file HW5/548, item CX/MSS/T263/29  71. ^ Tagliabue (2006).  72. ^ "Wartime Author Mystery 'Solved'." BBC News, 17 March 2008.  73. ^ Tagliabue, John. On the Trail of a Missing Aviator, Saint-Exupery The New York Times New York edition, 10 April 2008. Retrieved 25 March 2014.  74. ^ Altweg (2008).  75. ^ Boenisch, Georg & Leick, Romain. Legenden | Gelassen in den Tod, Der Spiegel, 22 March 2008. Retrieved 25 March 2014.  76. ^ "Ivan Rebroffs Bruder schoss Saint-Exupéry ab" (in German). Agence France-Presse, 15 March 2008. Archived 20 March 2008 at the Wayback Machine.  77. ^ German "Pilot fears he killed writer St. Exupéry." Reuters news story quoting Rippert in Le Figaro, 16 March 2008. Retrieved: 16 March 2008. Archived 19 March 2008 at the Wayback Machine.  78. ^ a b Bönisch & Leick (2008).  79. ^ Bobek, Jan.Saint-Exupéry, lack of archival documents, HNED.cz, 29 March 2008. Retrieved 25 March 2014.  80. ^ Von Gartzen, Lino & Triebel, Claas. The Prince, The Pilot, and Antoine de Saint-Exupery, Herbig Verlag Publishing, 1 August 2008.  81. ^ "Brief Chronograph Of Publications." Archived 14 October 2008 at the Wayback Machine. LePetitPrince.net, 26 October 2011. Note: the earliest year of publication is given for either of the French or English versions. All of Saint-Exupéry's literary works were originally created in French (he could neither speak nor write English very well), but some of his writings were translated and published in English prior to their French publication.  82. ^ a b c d Miller, John R. and Eliot G. Fay. "Antoine de Saint-Exupéry: A Bibliography." The French Review, American Association of Teachers of French, Vol. 19, No. 5, March 1946, p. 300 (subscription). Retrieved: 20 September 2011.  83. ^ a b Fay, Elliot G. "Saint-Exupéry in New York." Modern Language Notes, Johns Hopkins University Press, Vol. 61, No. 7, November 1946, p. 461.  84. ^ Inman, William H. "Hotelier Saint-Exupery's Princely Instincts." Institutional Investor, March 2011. Retrieved online from General OneFile: 6 November 2011 (subscription).  85. ^ Fay 1946, p. 463.  86. ^ a b Smith, Maxwell A. Knight of the Air: The Life and Works of Antoine de Saint-Exupéry New York: Pageant Press, 1956; London: Cassell, 1959, bibliography, pp. 205–221.  87. ^ Saint-Exupéry, Antoine de. A Sense of Life. New York: Funk & Wagnalls, 1965.  88. ^ M.A.K. "Book Reviews: A Sense Of Life." Flying Magazine, January 1966, p. 114.  89. ^ Saint-Exupéry (1965).  90. ^ a b Saint-Exupéry, Antoine. Retrieved from Trussel.com: 26 May 2012: Saint-Exupéry, Antoine de. An Open Letter to Frenchmen Everywhere, The New York Times Magazine, 29 November 1942, p. 7. Also published in French as: Saint-Exupéry, Antoine de. "Voulez-vous, Français, vous reconcilier? (French People, Would You Reconcile?)." Le Canada, de Montréal, 30 November 1942.  91. Saint-Exupéry, Antoine de. An Open Letter to Frenchmen Everywhere, The New York Times Magazine, 29 November 1942, p. 7. Also published in French as: 92. Saint-Exupéry, Antoine de. "Voulez-vous, Français, vous reconcilier? (French People, Would You Reconcile?)." Le Canada, de Montréal, 30 November 1942. 93. ^ "Articles of StEx: Brief Chronograph of Publications." Archived 15 April 2012 at the Wayback Machine. lepetitprince.net, 2011. Retrieved: 23 October 2011.  94. ^ Schiff (1996), p. 414.  95. ^ "French Code of Intellectual Property (in French)." celog.fr. Retrieved: 22 August 2012.  96. ^ Schiff (2006), p. 438.  97. ^ Basse, D.H. Le musée de l'Air du Bourget va ouvrir un espace Saint-Exupéry, French Recreational Aviation bulletin board website. Retrieved from Groups.Google.com 14 March 2013. (in French)  98. ^ "Halls d'exposition: Saint-Exupéry". Archived from the original on 5 December 2009. Retrieved 5 December 2009., Le Bourget, Paris: French Air & Space Museum website. Retrieved from Archive.org, 13 March 2013. (in French)  99. ^ Mandel, Charles. "Museum Marks Pilot's Life And Dangerous Times." Edmonton Journal, Edmonton, Alberta, 17 January 1995, p. A.11, ProQuest ID: 20547779 (subscription).  100. ^ "The Legend of Saint-Exupéry in Brazil." Archived 26 April 2012 at the Wayback Machine. TheLittlePrince.com, 11 March 2011.  101. ^ "Toulouse va célébrer Antoine de Saint-Exupéry." Toulouse7.com, 22 September 2011.  102. ^ USU Opens International Saint-Exupery Center, Lomonosov Moscow State University in Ulyanovsk website, 28 February 2012. Retrieved: 17 January 2013.  103. ^ Zavialova, Tatiana. Le Musée Saint-Exupéry dans la capitale russe d'aviation, La Voix de la Russie website, 6 February 2012. Retrieved from french.ruvr.ru on 17 January 2013. (in French)  104. ^ Rothstein, Edward. 70 Years on, Magic Concocted in Exile: The Morgan Explores the Origins of 'The Little Prince', The New York Times website, 23 January 2014, published in print 24 January 2014, p. C25 (New York edition). Retrieved 24 January 2014.  105. ^ Gaffney, Adrienne. On View | Long Live "The Little Prince", The New York Times blog website, 23 January 2014. Retrieved 24 January 2014.  106. ^ Maloney, Jennifer. 'The Little Prince' lands at the Morgan Library: A New Exhibit Explores the Author's Years Writing in New York, The Wall Street Journal website, 23 January 2014. Retrieved 24 January 2014.  107. ^ The Little Prince: A New York Story: January 24 through April 27, 2014, New York City: The Morgan Library & Museum website, January 2014. Retrieved 15 January 2014.  108. ^ Runcie, Charlotte. The story of The Little Prince and the Big Apple, The Telegraph website, 24 January 2014. Retrieved 24 January 2014.  109. ^ Krôller, Eva-Marie. "Expo '67: Canada's Camelot?"[permanent dead link] Canadian Literature, Spring–Summer 1997, Issue 152–153, pp. 36–51.[dead link]  110. ^ a b Images of International Stamps (Government- and Private-Issue) Honoring Saint-Exupéry. Trussel.com website. Retrieved: 9 February 2012.  111. ^ Images of the Israeli Stamp and Related Issues. Trussel.com website. Retrieved: 20 October 2011.  112. ^ "Antoine de Saint Exupéry Airport, San Antonio Oeste, Argentina", Airport-information. Retrieved: 8 March 2012.  113. ^ About Us: What's In A Name? Archived 22 December 2011 at the Wayback Machine., Terre des hommes Ontario. Retrieved 27 December 2011.  114. ^ "About TDFIF: Our History." Terre des Hommes International Federation. Retrieved: 27 December 2011.  115. ^ Mun-Delsalle, Y-Jean. "Pursuits: Guardians Of The Future (article synopsis)." The Peak (magazine), March 2011. Archived 26 April 2012 at the Wayback Machine.  116. ^ AEFE  117. ^ Ecole Saint Exupery - Senegal  118. ^ Schiff (2006), p. 445.  119. ^ "Google's Celebration of Antoine de Saint-Exupéry's 110th Birthday." Logo-Google.com website, 29 June 2010.  120. ^ "51 Heroes of Aviation". Retrieved 28 February 2015.  121. ^ https://www.pmgnotes.com/news/article/6432/A-Note-Fit-for-a-Little-Prince/  122. ^ Saint-Exupéry (2000).  123. ^ a b Grode, Eric. "Musical Couple Turn to Aviator and His Wife." The New York Times New York edition, 21 August 2011, p. AR6.  124. ^ a b Jones, Kenneth. "Saint-Ex, a Musical Drowned by Hurricane Irene, Surfaces Again Sept. 2 in Vermont." Playbill.com, 2 September 2011. Retrieved: 3 September 2011. Archived 22 October 2012 at the Wayback Machine.  125. ^ Healy, Patrick. "Flooding Changes Plans for World Premiere Musical in Vermont." The New York Times, 29 August 2011. Retrieved: 26 September 2011.  Bibliography    - Altweg, Jürg. "Aus Erfahrung skeptisch: Französische Zweifel an Saint-Exuperys Abschuss durch Horst Rippert" Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (Frankfurt), Issue 32/S44, 28 March 2008. (in German) - Berton, Pierre. 1967: The Last Good Year. Toronto: Doubleday Canada, 1997. ISBN 0-385-25662-0. - Bönisch, Georg von and Romain Leick. "Gelassen in den Tod" (in German). Der Spiegel, Issue 13, 22 March 2008. - Brown, Hannibal. "The Country Where the Stones Fly: Visions of a Little Prince" habpro.tripod.com, 2004. - Cate, Curtis. Antoine de Saint-Exupéry: His Life and Times. Toronto: Longmans Canada Limited, 1970. ISBN 978-1557782915. - Commire, Anne. Something about the Author (Volume 20 of Something about the Author: Facts and Pictures about Contemporary Authors and Illustrators of Books for Young People). Detroit: Gale Research Company, 1980. ISBN 978-0-8103-0053-8. - Cotsalas, Valerie. "The Little Prince: Born in Asharoken." The New York Times, 10 September 2000. - Dunning, Jennifer. "In the footsteps of Saint-Exupery." The New York Times, 12 May 1989. - Saint-Exupéry, Antoine de; with Adrienne Foulke (trans.) A Sense of Life. New York: Funk & Wagnalls, 1965, 1956. - Saint-Exupéry, Antoine (Consuelo de); and/tr. by Esther Allen. The Tale of the Rose: The Love Story Behind The Little Prince. New York: Random House, 2000. ISBN 978-0-8129-6717-3. - Schiff, Stacy. Saint-Exupéry: A Biography, Da Capo Press, 1997, ISBN 0306807408, ISBN 978-0-3068-0740-4; New York: Henry Holt, 2006, First edition 1993. ISBN 978-0-8050-7913-5. - Severson, Marilyn S. Masterpieces of French Literature: Greenwood Introduces Literary Masterpieces. Westport, Connecticut: Greenwood Publishing Group, 2004. ISBN 978-0-313-31484-1. - Tagliabue, John. "Clues To The Mystery Of A Writer Pilot Who Disappeared." The New York Times, 11 April 2008. - La Gazette des Français du Paraguay Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, Vol de nuit 1931, Vaincre l'impossible - Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, Vuelo nocturno 1931, Superar lo desconocido bilingue, numéro 14 année II, Assomption, Paraguay.  Further reading Selected biographies   - Chevrier, Pierre (pseudonym of Hélène (Nelly) de Vogüé). Antoine de Saint-Exupéry. Montreal, Quebec, Canada: La librairie Gallimard de Montréal, 1950. - Migeo, Marcel. Saint-Exupéry. New York: McGraw-Hill, (trans. 1961), 1960. - Peyre, Henri. French Novelists of Today. New York: Oxford UP, 1967. - Robinson, Joy D. Marie. Antoine de Saint Exupéry (Twayne's World Authors series: French literature). Boston: Twayne Publishers, 1984, pp. 120–142. - Rumbold, Richard and Lady Margaret Stewart. The Winged Life: A Portrait of Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, Poet and Airman. New York: D. McKay, 1955. - Smith, Maxwell A. Knight of the Air: The Life and Works of Antoine de Saint-Exupéry. New York: Pageant Press, 1956. External links   - Antoine de Saint-Exupéry (society)[permanent dead link] (official website) (in French) - Antoine de Saint-Exupéry Youth Foundation (F-ASEJ) (official website) (in English) (in French) - 2011 Année Antoine de Saint-Exupéry Toulouse celebration of Saint-Exupéry in 2011 (in English) (in French) - Major bibliography of French and English biographical works on Saint-Exupéry (in English) - A website dedicated to the Centennial Anniversary of Antoine and Consuelo de Saint-Exupéry - Another website about Antoine de Saint-Exupéry (in French) - Wikilivres has original media or text related to this article: Antoine de Saint-Exupéry (in the public domain in South Korea) - The Luftwaffe and Saint-Exupéry: the evidence (in the website "Ghost Bombers")
The Old Testament (abbreviated OT) is the first part of Christian Bibles, based primarily upon the Hebrew Bible (or Tanakh), a collection of ancient religious writings by the Israelites believed by most Christians and religious Jews to be the sacred Word of God. The second part of the Christian Bible is the New Testament.   The books that comprise the Old Testament canon, as well as their order and names, differ between Christian denominations. The Catholic canon comprises 46 books, and the canons of the Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox Churches comprise up to 51 books and the most common Protestant canon comprises 39 books. The 39 books in common to all the Christian canons correspond to the 24 books of the Tanakh, with some differences of order, and there are some differences in text. The additional number reflects the splitting of several texts (Kings, Samuel and Chronicles, Ezra–Nehemiah and the minor prophets) into separate books in Christian bibles. The books which are part of a Christian Old Testament but which are not part of the Hebrew canon are sometimes described as deuterocanonical. In general, Protestant Bibles do not include the deuterocanonical books in their canon, but some versions of Anglican and Lutheran bibles place such books in a separate section called Apocrypha. These extra books are ultimately derived from the earlier Greek Septuagint collection of the Hebrew scriptures and are also Jewish in origin. Some are also contained in the Dead Sea Scrolls.   The Old Testament consists of many distinct books by various authors produced over a period of centuries. Christians traditionally divide the Old Testament into four sections: (1) the first five books or Pentateuch (Torah); (2) the history books telling the history of the Israelites, from their conquest of Canaan to their defeat and exile in Babylon; (3) the poetic and "Wisdom books" dealing, in various forms, with questions of good and evil in the world; and (4) the books of the biblical prophets, warning of the consequences of turning away from God.
The Pain – When Will It End? is a cartoon drawn by Tim Kreider (born February 25, 1967) from 1994 until June 8, 2009 (with sporadic updates through early 2013). The first editions were self-published, until the cartoon began running weekly in the Baltimore City Paper in 1997. It has since also been picked up by the Jackson Planet Weekly and The Indy in Bloomington-Normal, Illinois. From September 2000, it also appeared as a webcomic.   Many of Kreider's comics during the 2000s addressed issues in American politics from a point of view harshly critical of the George W. Bush administration. He is among the artists featured in Attitude 2: The New Subversive Alternative Cartoonists, edited by Ted Rall (2004). Kreider also received coverage in The New York Times in 2006 for his defense of Pluto as a planet before and after its demotion to planetoid.   Anthologies in book form have been published as The Pain – When Will It End? (May 2004), Why Do They Kill Me? (May 2005) and Twilight of the Assholes: Cartoons & Essays 2005–2009  (February 2011). A limited edition collection of his political cartoons, Fuck Them All, was published in September 2004. A collection of essays and cartoons, We Learn Nothing, was published in 2012.  References    1. ^ tomhart.net  2. ^ Kreider, Tim (August 23, 2006). "I ♥ Pluto". The New York Times. Retrieved April 19, 2013.  External links   - Official website - interview at walruscomix.com      This article related to webcomics is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
The religious institute of the Salesians of Don Bosco (S.D.B.), founded by St. John Bosco in 1859 (approved by the Holy See in 1874), was originally named the Society of St. Francis de Sales, and was placed under his patronage. The Oblate Sisters of St. Francis de Sales (O.S.F.S.) were founded by St. Léonie Aviat and the Blessed Louis Brisson, under the spiritual guidance of the Venerable Marie de Sales Chappuis, V.H.M., in 1866. The Oblates of St. Francis de Sales (O.S.F.S.) were later founded by Brisson for men, also under the guidance of Mother Marie de Sales, in 1875. The Paulist Fathers in the United States count him as one of their patrons.  Mosaic of Sales on the exterior of St. Francis de Sales Oratory in St. Louis, MO   The Institute of Christ the King Sovereign Priest, a society of priests founded in the 20th century, also has St. Francis de Sales as one of their three primary Patrons. One of the major apostolates of the Institute in the United States is the Oratory of St. Francis de Sales in St. Louis, Missouri.  Influence on other saints   Vincent de Paul met Francis de Sales in Paris in 1618 or 1619. Francis de Sales' spirituality and writings, especially An Introduction to the Devout Life, and Treatise on the Love of God, were to have a profound influence on Vincent.  Namesakes Educational institutions   - St Francis College, Letchworth Garden City, Hertfordshire, England - St Francis De Sales Catholic School, Houston, TX - St Francis de Sales School, Morgantown, West Virginia - DeSales High School in Louisville, Kentucky - DeSales University, located in Center Valley, Pennsylvania, (formerly Allentown College of St. Francis de Sales) - Mount de Sales Academy, Catonsville, Maryland - Mount de Sales Academy, Georgia - Saint Francis de Sales Seminary Milwaukee, Wisconsin - Salesianum School, Wilmington, DE, United States. - St. Francis DeSales High School in Columbus, OH, United States. - St. Francis de Sales High School in Chicago, IL, United States. - St. Francis de Sales High School in Toledo, OH, United States. - St. Francis de Sales College, in Mount Barker, South Australia, Australia. - St. Francis de Sales - St. Stephen School, in Geneva, NY, United States. - St. Francis de Sales School, in Nagpur, India, managed by the Missionaries of St. Francis de Sales, is named after him. - St. Francis de Sales School, in New Delhi, India, managed by the Missionaries of St. Francis de Sales, is named after him. - St. Francis de Sales School, in Dhemaji, India, managed by the Missionaries of St. Francis de Sales, is named after him. - St. Francis de Sales School, Nizamabad, Telangana, India. - St. Francis de Sales in Wellington, New Zealand. - St. Francis de Sales High School, Francis Nagar, Korutla. - St. Francis de Sales School for the Deaf in Brooklyn, New York, NY, United States. - St. Francis de Sales College, in Nagpur, India - The three seminary departments in the Archdiocese of Lipa are named after St. Francis de Sales (St. Francis de Sales Minor, Major, and Theological Seminary)   St Francis de Sales College, Bengaluru, India   St. Francis de Sales elementary school, Lake Geneva, WI, United States.   St. Francis de Sales School, Salisbury, MD, United States  Religious Institutes   - Missionaries of St. Francis de Sales - Oblate Sisters of St. Francis de Sales - Oblates of St. Francis de Sales - Salesians of Don Bosco (formerly Society of Saint Francis de Sales) Other Places   - The island of St. François Atoll - Saint Francis Hospital & Medical Center in Hartford, CT, United States. - St. Francis de Sales Broacast Center in Batangas City, Philippines houses two radio stations under the Catholic Media Network: 99.1 Spirit FM and ALFM 95.9 Radyo Totoo See also   - Savoy References    1. ^ a b "CATHOLIC ENCYCLOPEDIA: St. Francis de Sales". www.newadvent.org. Retrieved 2018-12-18.  2. ^ a b John J. Crawley. "St. Francis de Sales, Bishop, Doctor of the Church". Lives of Saints. EWTN. Retrieved 14 January 2008.  3. ^ a b c St. Francis de Sales: Selected Letters, (translation and Introduction by Elisabeth Stopp), Faber and Faber, London, 1960 Archived 13 August 2014 at the Wayback Machine.  4. ^ "The Third Order". home.earthlink.net. Retrieved 2018-12-18.  5. ^ a b c d Foley O.F.M., Leonard. Saint of the Day, Lives, Lessons, and Feast, (revised by Pat McCloskey O.F.M.), Franciscan Media ISBN 978-0-86716-887-7  6. ^ "New Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge, Vol. IV: Draeseke - Goa - Christian Classics Ethereal Library". www.ccel.org. Retrieved 2018-12-18.  7. ^ a b c The Franciscan Book Of Saints, edited by Marion Habig, ofm, Franciscan Herald Press, 1959 Archived 15 May 2011 at the Wayback Machine.  8. ^ a b c "Francis de Sales - Vincentian Encyclopedia". famvin.org. Retrieved 2018-12-18.  9. ^ a b "Oblate History", Oblates of St. Francis De Sales, Wilmington- Philadelphia Province Archived 28 September 2013 at the Wayback Machine.  10. ^ a b c "Error". www.desales.edu. Retrieved 2018-12-18.  11. ^ Saint Jeanne-Françoise de Chantal (1988). Francis de Sales, Jane de Chantal: Letters of Spiritual Direction. Paulist Press. ISBN 978-0-8091-2990-4.  12. ^ Murphy, John F. Mary's Immaculate Heart, p. 24, 2007 ISBN 1-4067-3409-8  13. ^ Boundaries of Faith: Catholics and Protestants in the Diocese of Geneva by Jill Fehleison (Truman State University Press, 2011)  14. ^ Türks, Paul, C.O (1995). Philip Neri:The Fire of Joy. Translated by Daniel Utrecht, C.O. Edinburgh: T&T Clark. pp. 144–145. ISBN 0-567-29303-3.  15. ^ Diocese of Annency "Salesian Sites" Archived 26 September 2013 at the Wayback Machine.(in French)  16. ^ "Calendarium Romanum" (Libreria Editrice Vaticana 1969), p. 115  17. ^ "Who we are", Institute of Christ the King  18. ^ De Sales, St. Francis. "St Francis De Sales School in Nizamabad". St Francis Nizamabad Official. Archived from the original on 10 January 2016.    - Biography portal - Catholicism portal - Saints portal - France portal Bibliography   - Francis de Sales, Introduction to the devout life, London, 2012. limovia.net ISBN 978-1-78336-023-9 - Francis de Sales, Treatise on the love of God [known as "Theotimus"], London, 2012. limovia.net ISBN 978-1-78336-024-6 - Introduction to the Devout Life (Translated and Edited by John K. Ryan), Doubleday, 1972. ISBN 978-0-385-03009-0 - The Catholic Controversy: St. Francis de Sales' Defense of the Faith, TAN Books, 1989. ISBN 978-0-89555-387-4 - Set Your Heart Free (Edited by John Kirvan), Ave Maria Press, 2008. ISBN 978-1-59471-153-4 - Sermons of St. Francis de Sales On Prayer, TAN Books, 1985. ISBN 978-0-89555-258-7 - Sermons of St. Francis de Sales on Our Lady, TAN Books, 1985. ISBN 978-0-89555-259-4 - Sermons of St. Francis de Sales For Lent, TAN Books, 2009. ISBN 978-0-89555-260-0 - Sermons of St. Francis de Sales for Advent and Christmas, TAN Books, 1987. ISBN 978-0-89555-261-7 External links Author:Francis de Sales   - Works by Francis de Sales at Project Gutenberg - Works by or about Francis de Sales at Internet Archive - Works by Francis de Sales at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks)  - International Commission on Salesian Studies All about St. Francis de Sales worldwide - Statue in St Peter's Square - Founder Statue in St Peter's Basilica - Saint Francis de Sales papers, Vault MSS 447 at L. Tom Perry Special Collections, Harold B. Lee Library, Brigham Young University - Brief except from Treatise on the Love of God Works   - Introduction to the Devout Life Frederick Pustet & Co. (192X) - Set Your Heart Free Readings from De Sales - Spiritual Conferences from Oblates of St. Francis de Sales - An Abridgment of the Interior Spirit of the Religious of the Visitation of the Blessed Virgin Mary George Templeman (1834) - The Mystical Flora of St. Francis de Sales; or, The Christian Life Under the Emblem of Plants M.H. Gill & Son (1877) - Maxims and Counsels of St. Francis de Sales for Every Day in the Year M.H. Gill & Son(1884) - Of the Love of God Rivington's (1888) - The Secret of Sanctity, According to St. Francis de Sales and Father Crasset, S.J. Benziger Brothers (1893) - Letters to Persons of the World Benziger Brothers (1894) - The Catholic Controversy Burns and Oates (1909) - Letters to Persons in Religion Burns and Oates (1909) Theology Bible and Tradition; CatechismGeneral   - Body and soul - Divine grace - Dogma - Original sin - Kingdom of God - Saints - Nicene Creed - Salvation - Sermon on the Mount - Ten Commandments - Trinity - Worship Ecclesiology   - Communitas perfecta - Councils - Ecumenism - Four marks - Infallibility - Mystici corporis Christi - One true church - People of God - Three states - Subsistit in Sacraments   - Baptism - Confirmation - Eucharist - Penance - Anointing of the Sick Last rites - Last rites - Holy orders - Matrimony Mariology   - Assumption - History - Immaculate Conception - Mariology of the popes - Mariology of the saints - Mother of God - Perpetual virginity - Veneration - See also: - Josephology Philosophy   - Natural law - Moral theology - Personalism - Social teaching - Philosophers - See also: - Science Evolution - Evolution - Separation of church and state Relations Politics - Relations - Politics Saints   - Holy Family Mary Joseph - Mary - Joseph - Patriarchs - Prophets - Archangels - Martyrs - Church Fathers - Doctors of the Church - Evangelists - Confessors - Disciples - Virgins Culture   - Art - Artists - Authors - Church buildings Altarpieces - Altarpieces - Library - Museums - Music - Distinctions - Role in civilisation - See also: - Criticism of the Catholic Church Anti-Catholicism - Anti-Catholicism Media   - Acta Apostolicae Sedis - Annuario Pontificio - News.va - L'Osservatore Romano - Vatican Radio - Vatican Media TV Octava Dies - Octava Dies - EWTN National Catholic Register - National Catholic Register - See also: - The Catholic Herald - La Croix - The Tablet - (more) Institutes, orders, societies   - Assumptionists - Annonciades - Augustinians - Basilians - Benedictines - Bethlehemites - Blue nuns - Camaldoleses - Camillians - Carmelites - Carthusians - Cistercians - Clarisses - Conceptionists - Crosiers - Dominicans - Franciscans - Good Shepherd Sisters - Hieronymites - Jesuits - Mercedarians - Minims - Olivetans - Oratorians - Piarists - Premonstratensians - Redemptorists - Servites - Theatines - Trappists - Trinitarians - Visitandines Associations of the faithful   - International Federation of Catholic Parochial Youth Movements (FIMCAP) - International Federation of Catholic Universities - International Kolping Society - Schoenstatt Apostolic Movement - International Union of Catholic Esperantists - Community of Sant'Egidio Charities   - Aid to the Church in Need - Caritas Internationalis - Catholic Home Missions - Catholic Relief Services - CIDSE - See also: - Health care - Schools - Universities    - Catholicism portal - Book - Category  Late antiquityGreat Church (State church of the Roman Empire)   - Constantine the Great Constantine the Great and Christianity - Constantine the Great and Christianity - Arian controversy - Archbasilica of St. John Lateran - First Council of Nicaea - Pope Sylvester I - First Council of Constantinople - Biblical canon - Jerome - Vulgate - Council of Ephesus - Council of Chalcedon - Benedict of Nursia - Second Council of Constantinople - Pope Gregory I - Gregorian chant Early Middle Ages   - Third Council of Constantinople - Saint Boniface - Byzantine Iconoclasm - Second Council of Nicaea - Charlemagne - Pope Leo III - Fourth Council of Constantinople - East–West Schism High Middle Ages   - Pope Urban II - Investiture Controversy - Crusades - First Council of the Lateran - Second Council of the Lateran - Third Council of the Lateran - Pope Innocent III - Latin Empire - Francis of Assisi - Fourth Council of the Lateran - Inquisition - First Council of Lyon - Second Council of Lyon - Bernard of Clairvaux - Thomas Aquinas Late Middle Ages   - Pope Boniface VIII - Avignon Papacy - Pope Clement V - Council of Vienne - Knights Templar - Catherine of Siena - Pope Alexander VI Reformation Catholic Reformation   - Reformation - Catholic Reformation - Thomas More - Pope Leo X - Society of Jesus - Ignatius of Loyola - Francis Xavier - Dissolution of the Monasteries - Council of Trent - Pope Pius V - Tridentine Mass - Teresa of Ávila - John of the Cross - Philip Neri - Robert Bellarmine Baroque Period to the French Revolution   - Pope Innocent XI - Pope Benedict XIV - Suppression of the Society of Jesus - Anti-clericalism - Pope Pius VI - Shimabara Rebellion - Edict of Nantes - Dechristianization of France during the French Revolution 19th century   - Pope Pius VII - Pope Pius IX - Dogma of the Immaculate Conception of the Virgin Mary - Our Lady of La Salette - Our Lady of Lourdes - First Vatican Council - Papal infallibility - Pope Leo XIII - Mary of the Divine Heart - Prayer of Consecration to the Sacred Heart - Rerum novarum 20th century   - Pope Pius X - Our Lady of Fátima - Persecutions of the Catholic Church and Pius XII - Pope Pius XII - Pope Pius XII Consecration to the Immaculate Heart of Mary - Dogma of the Assumption of the Virgin Mary - Lateran Treaty - Pope John XXIII - Second Vatican Council - Pope Paul VI - Pope John Paul I - Pope John Paul II - World Youth Day 1995 2000 - 1995 - 2000 21st century   - Catholic Church sexual abuse cases - Pope Benedict XVI - World Youth Day 2002 2005 2008 2011 2013 2016 - 2002 - 2005 - 2008 - 2011 - 2013 - 2016 - Pope Francis    - Pope portal - Vatican City portal - Catholicism portal  Evangelists   - Matthew - Mark - Luke - John Church Fathers   - Alexander of Alexandria - Alexander of Jerusalem - Ambrose of Milan - Anatolius - Athanasius of Alexandria - Augustine of Hippo - Caesarius of Arles - Caius - Cappadocian Fathers - Clement of Alexandria - Clement of Rome - Cyprian of Carthage - Cyril of Alexandria - Cyril of Jerusalem - Damasus I - Desert Fathers - Desert Mothers - Dionysius of Alexandria - Dionysius of Corinth - Dionysius - Ephrem the Syrian - Epiphanius of Salamis - Fulgentius of Ruspe - Gregory the Great - Gregory of Nazianzus - Gregory of Nyssa - Hilary of Poitiers - Hippolytus of Rome - Ignatius of Antioch - Irenaeus of Lyons - Isidore of Seville - Jerome of Stridonium - John Chrysostom - John of Damascus - Maximus the Confessor - Melito of Sardis - Quadratus of Athens - Papias of Hierapolis - Peter Chrysologus - Polycarp of Smyrna - Theophilus of Antioch - Victorinus of Pettau - Vincent of Lérins - Zephyrinus Martyrs   - Canadian Martyrs - Carthusian Martyrs - Forty Martyrs of England and Wales - Four Crowned Martyrs - Great Martyr - The Holy Innocents - Irish Martyrs - Joan of Arc - Lübeck martyrs - Korean Martyrs - Martyrology - Martyrs of Albania - Martyrs of China - Martyrs of Japan - Martyrs of Laos - Martyrs of Natal - Martyrs of Otranto - Martyrs of the Spanish Civil War - Maximilian Kolbe - Perpetua and Felicity - Saints of the Cristero War - Stephen - Three Martyrs of Chimbote - Uganda Martyrs - Vietnamese Martyrs Patriarchs   - Adam - Abel - Abraham - Isaac - Jacob - Joseph - Joseph (father of Jesus) - David - Noah - Solomon - Matriarchs Popes   - Adeodatus I - Adeodatus II - Adrian III - Agapetus I - Agatho - Alexander I - Anacletus - Anastasius I - Anicetus - Anterus - Benedict II - Boniface I - Boniface IV - Caius - Callixtus I - Celestine I - Celestine V - Clement I - Cornelius - Damasus I - Dionysius - Eleuterus - Eugene I - Eusebius - Eutychian - Evaristus - Fabian - Felix I - Felix III - Felix IV - Gelasius I - Gregory I - Gregory II - Gregory III - Gregory VII - Hilarius - Hormisdas - Hyginus - Innocent I - John I - John XXIII - John Paul II - Julius I - Leo I - Leo II - Leo III - Leo IV - Leo IX - Linus - Lucius I - Marcellinus - Marcellus I - Mark - Martin I - Miltiades - Nicholas I - Paschal I - Paul I - Peter - Pius I - Pius V - Pius X - Pontian - Sergius I - Silverius - Simplicius - Siricius - Sixtus I - Sixtus II - Sixtus III - Soter - Stephen I - Stephen IV - Sylvester I - Symmachus - Telesphorus - Urban I - Victor I - Vitalian - Zachary - Zephyrinus - Zosimus Prophets   - Agabus - Amos - Anna - Baruch ben Neriah - David - Dalua - Elijah - Ezekiel - Habakkuk - Haggai - Hosea - Isaiah - Jeremiah - Job - Joel - John the Baptist - Jonah - Judas Barsabbas - Malachi - Melchizedek - Micah - Moses - Nahum - Obadiah - Samuel - Seven Maccabees and their mother - Simeon - Zechariah (prophet) - Zechariah (NT) - Zephaniah Virgins   - Agatha of Sicily - Agnes of Rome - Bernadette Soubirous - Brigid of Kildare - Cecilia - Clare of Assisi - Eulalia of Mérida - Euphemia - Genevieve - Kateri Tekakwitha - Lucy of Syracuse - Maria Goretti - Mother Teresa - Narcisa de Jesús - Rose of Lima See also   - Military saints - Virtuous pagan    - Catholicism portal - Saints portal
Thích Nhất Hạnh (/ˈtɪk ˈnjʌt ˈhʌn/; Vietnamese: [tʰǐk̟ ɲə̌t hâjŋ̟ˀ] (; born as Nguyễn Xuân Bảo on October 11, 1926) is a Vietnamese Buddhist monk and peace activist, founder of the Plum Village Tradition.   Thích Nhất Hạnh spent most of his later life residing in the Plum Village Monastery in southwest France, travelling internationally to give retreats and talks. He coined the term "Engaged Buddhism" in his book Vietnam: Lotus in a Sea of Fire. After a long term of exile, he was given permission to make his first return trip to Vietnam in 2005. In November 2018, he returned to Vietnam to spend his remaining days at his "root temple," Từ Hiếu Temple near Huế.   Nhất Hạnh has published more than 100 books, including more than 40 in English. He is active in the peace movement, promoting nonviolent solutions to conflict. He also refrains from animal product consumption (veganism) as a means of nonviolence towards animals.
This section lacks ISBNs for the books listed in it. Please make it easier to conduct research by listing ISBNs. If the {{Cite book}} or {{citation}} templates are in use, you may add ISBNs automatically, or discuss this issue on the talk page. (October 2014) See also   - The Battle of the Sexes (1959 film) based on "The Catbird Seat" - Walter Mitty, expression References    1. ^ a b c Liukkonen, Petri. "James Thurber". Books and Writers (kirjasto.sci.fi). Finland: Kuusankoski Public Library. Archived from the original on August 19, 2006.  2. ^ Kelly, John (2018-04-07). "Perspective | Why is there a street in Falls Church, Va., named after James Thurber?". Washington Post. ISSN 0190-8286. Retrieved 2018-05-17.  3. ^ V.S. Ramachandran; Sandra Blakeslee (1988). Phantoms in the Brain. HarperCollins. pp. 85–7.  4. ^ Thurber House. "James Thurber". Archived from the original on 2007-10-12. Retrieved 2007-10-14.  5. ^ a b Thurber House. "James Thurber: His Life & Times". Archived from the original on January 14, 2006. Retrieved 2007-10-14.  6. ^ "Is Sex Necessary?". The Attic. Retrieved 8 September 2018.  7. ^ A Window Into Thurber's Secret Life, The New York Times, 12 March 1975  8. ^ "Helen Thurber Is Dead at 84; Edited Writings of Husband". The New York Times. 1986-12-26. Retrieved 11 January 2016.  9. ^ Bernstein, Burton (1975). Thurber. New York: Dodd, Mead & Company. p. 501. ISBN 978-0-396-07027-6.  10. ^ Grossberg, Michael (October 5, 2009). "Frazier first to win Thurber Prize twice". The Columbus Dispatch.  11. ^ "True Crime: An American Anthology". Library of America.  12. ^ "CONNECTICUT - Fairfield County". National Register of Historic Places.  13. ^ "OHIO - Franklin County". National Register of Historic Places.  14. ^ "Dec. 8, 2015: birthday: James Thurber". The Writer’s Almanac.  15. ^ "You Could Look It Up", The Saturday Evening Post, April 5, 1941, pp. 9–11, 114, 116  16. ^ Veeck, Bill; Ed Linn (1962). "A Can of Beer, a Slice of Cake—and Thou, Eddie Gaedel", from Veeck – As In Wreck: The Autobiography of Bill Veeck. Chicago, IL: The University of Chicago Press. pp. 11–23. ISBN 978-0-226-85218-8.  17. ^ "The Modern Fable: James Thurber's Social Criticisms", by Ruth A. Maharg, Children's Literature Association Quarterly, Volume 9, Number 2, Summer 1984, pp. 72-73.  18. ^ Sorel, Edward (1989-11-05). "The Business of Being Funny". The New York Times. Time Inc. Retrieved 2007-08-17.  19. ^ "Time Magazine Cover: James Thurber – July 9, 1951". Time Archive: 1923 to the Present. Time Inc. 1951-07-09. Retrieved 2007-01-31.  20. ^ "Priceless Gift of Laughter". Time Archive: 1923 to the Present. Time Inc. 1951-07-09. Retrieved 2007-01-31.  21. ^ "The Unicorn in the Garden". The Big Cartoon Database. Retrieved 2007-01-31.  22. ^ Bernstein, Burton (1975). Thurber. New York: Dodd, Mead & Company. p. 477. ISBN 978-0-396-07027-6.  23. ^ "A Thurber Carnival". Internet Broadway Database. The Broadway League. Retrieved 2008-03-01.  24. ^ "Olbermann signs off msnbc - Entertainment - Television - TODAY.com". Today.msnbc.msn.com. Retrieved 2012-05-06.  25. ^ Thurber, James (January 8, 1949). "File and Forget". The New Yorker. 24 (46): 24–48.  Further reading Biographies of Thurber   - Bernstein, Burton. 1975. Thurber. William Morrow & Co. ISBN 9780396070276 - Fensch, Thomas. 2001. The Man Who Was Walter Mitty: The Life and Work of James Thurber. ISBN 9780738840833 - Grauer, Neil A. 1994. Remember Laughter: A Life of James Thurber. University of Nebraska Press. ISBN 9780803221550 - Kinney, Harrison. 1995. James Thurber: His Life and Times. Henry Holt & Co. ISBN 9780805039665 Literature review   - Holmes, Charles S. 1972. The Clocks Of Columbus: The Literary Career of James Thurber Atheneum. ISBN 9780689705748 External links   - The James Thurber Papers The Ohio State University Libraries Rare Books and Manuscripts Collection - Works by James Thurber at Faded Page (Canada) - Charles S. Holmes Research for The Clocks of Columbus The Ohio State University Libraries Rare Books and Manuscripts Collection - The Harrison Kinney Archive for James Thurber: His Life and Times The Ohio State University Libraries Rare Books and Manuscripts Collection - The Paris Review Interview - The Thurber House website - "Thurber's World (and Welcome To it)" by Bill Ervolino, The Record (Bergen County, NJ), December 17, 1995 - Pathfinder: James Grover Thurber – Thurber links portal - The Last Flower – ballet after an idea by James Thurber; 1975 - Origins of "the Thurber Dog" - James Thurber Biography, Encyclopedia of World Biography - New Yorker magazine digital archive—Abstracts of 1,758 Thurber short stories, poems, cartoons and commentaries - a list of James Thurber books - an alphabetical list of James Thurber short stories - If Grant Had Been Drinking at Appomattox on YouTube - 1982 Dramatization of the James Thurber short story.
This section possibly contains synthesis of material which does not verifiably mention or relate to the main topic. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. (February 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)   Several themes recur in Lovecraft's stories:   Now all my tales are based on the fundamental premise that common human laws and interests and emotions have no validity or significance in the vast cosmos-at-large. To me there is nothing but puerility in a tale in which the human form—and the local human passions and conditions and standards—are depicted as native to other worlds or other universes. To achieve the essence of real externality, whether of time or space or dimension, one must forget that such things as organic life, good and evil, love and hate, and all such local attributes of a negligible and temporary race called mankind, have any existence at all. Only the human scenes and characters must have human qualities. These must be handled with unsparing realism, (not catch-penny romanticism) but when we cross the line to the boundless and hideous unknown—the shadow-haunted Outside—we must remember to leave our humanity and terrestrialism at the threshold.   — H. P. Lovecraft, in note to the editor of Weird Tales, on resubmission of "The Call of Cthulhu"   Forbidden knowledge   Forbidden, dark, esoterically veiled knowledge is a central theme in many of Lovecraft's works. Many of his characters are driven by curiosity or scientific endeavor, and in many of his stories the knowledge they uncover proves Promethean in nature, either filling the seeker with regret for what they have learned, destroying them psychologically, or completely destroying the person who holds the knowledge.   Some critics argue that this theme is a reflection of Lovecraft's contempt of the world around him, causing him to search inwardly for knowledge and inspiration.  Non-human influences on humanity   The beings of Lovecraft's mythos often have human servants; Cthulhu, for instance, is worshiped under various names by cults among both the Greenlandic Inuit and voodoo circles of Louisiana, and in many other parts of the world.   These worshippers served a useful narrative purpose for Lovecraft. Many beings of the Mythos were too powerful to be defeated by human opponents, and so horrific that direct knowledge of them meant insanity for the victim. When dealing with such beings, Lovecraft needed a way to provide exposition and build tension without bringing the story to a premature end. Human followers gave him a way to reveal information about their "gods" in a diluted form, and also made it possible for his protagonists to win paltry victories. Lovecraft, like his contemporaries, envisioned "savages" as closer to supernatural knowledge unknown to civilized man.  Inherited guilt   Another recurring theme in Lovecraft's stories is the idea that descendants in a bloodline can never escape the stain of crimes committed by their forebears, at least if the crimes are atrocious enough. Descendants may be very far removed, both in place and in time (and, indeed, in culpability), from the act itself, and yet, they may be haunted by the revenant past, e.g. "The Rats in the Walls", "The Lurking Fear", "Arthur Jermyn", "The Alchemist", The Shadow over Innsmouth, "The Doom that Came to Sarnath" and The Case of Charles Dexter Ward.  Fate   Often in Lovecraft's works the protagonist is not in control of his own actions, or finds it impossible to change course. Many of his characters would be free from danger if they simply managed to run away; however, this possibility either never arises or is somehow curtailed by some outside force, such as in "The Colour Out of Space" and "The Dreams in the Witch House". Often his characters are subject to a compulsive influence from powerful malevolent or indifferent beings. As with the inevitability of one's ancestry, eventually even running away, or death itself, provides no safety ("The Thing on the Doorstep", "The Outsider", The Case of Charles Dexter Ward, etc.). In some cases, this doom is manifest in the entirety of humanity, and no escape is possible (The Shadow Out of Time).  Civilization under threat   Lovecraft was familiar with the work of the German conservative-revolutionary theorist Oswald Spengler, whose pessimistic thesis of the decadence of the modern West formed a crucial element in Lovecraft's overall anti-modern worldview. Spenglerian imagery of cyclical decay is present in particular in At the Mountains of Madness. S. T. Joshi, in H. P. Lovecraft: The Decline of the West, places Spengler at the center of his discussion of Lovecraft's political and philosophical ideas.   Lovecraft wrote to Clark Ashton Smith in 1927: "It is my belief, and was so long before Spengler put his seal of scholarly proof on it, that our mechanical and industrial age is one of frank decadence". Lovecraft was also acquainted with the writings of another German philosopher of decadence: Friedrich Nietzsche.   Lovecraft frequently dealt with the idea of civilization struggling against dark, primitive barbarism. In some stories this struggle is at an individual level; many of his protagonists are cultured, highly educated men who are gradually corrupted by some obscure and feared influence.   In such stories, the curse is often a hereditary one, either because of interbreeding with non-humans (e.g., "Facts Concerning the Late Arthur Jermyn and His Family" (1920), The Shadow over Innsmouth (1931)) or through direct magical influence (The Case of Charles Dexter Ward). Physical and mental degradation often come together; this theme of 'tainted blood' may represent concerns relating to Lovecraft's own family history, particularly the death of his father due to what Lovecraft must have suspected to be a syphilitic disorder.   In other tales, an entire society is threatened by barbarism. Sometimes the barbarism comes as an external threat, with a civilized race destroyed in war (e.g., "Polaris"). Sometimes, an isolated pocket of humanity falls into decadence and atavism of its own accord (e.g., "The Lurking Fear"). But most often, such stories involve a civilized culture being gradually undermined by a malevolent underclass influenced by inhuman forces.   It is likely that the "Roaring Twenties" left Lovecraft disillusioned as he was still obscure and struggling with the basic necessities of daily life, combined with seeing non-Western European immigrants in New York City.  Race, ethnicity, and class   Race is the most controversial aspect of Lovecraft's legacy, expressed in many disparaging remarks against the various non-Anglo-Saxon races and cultures in his work. As he grew older, his original Anglo-Saxon racial worldview softened into a classism or elitism which regarded the superior race to include all those self-ennobled through high culture. From the start, Lovecraft did not hold all white people in uniform high regard, but rather esteemed the English people and those of English descent. He praised non-WASP groups such as Hispanics and Jews; however his private writings on groups such as Irish Catholics, German immigrants and African-Americans were consistently negative. In an early poem, the 1912 "On the Creation of Niggers", Lovecraft describes black people not as human but as "beast ... in semi-human figure, filled ... with vice". In his early published essays, private letters and personal utterances, he argued for a strong color line to preserve race and culture. He made these arguments by direct disparagement of various races in his journalism and letters, and perhaps allegorically in his fiction concerning non-human races. Some have interpreted his racial attitude as being more cultural than brutally biological: Lovecraft showed sympathy to those who adopted Western culture, even to the extent of marrying a Jewish woman whom he viewed as "well assimilated". While Lovecraft's racial attitude has been seen as directly influenced by the society of his day, especially the New England society he grew up in, his racism appeared stronger than the general popular viewpoint.  Risks of a scientific era   At the turn of the 20th century, humanity's increased reliance upon science was both opening new worlds and solidifying understanding of ours. Lovecraft portrays this potential for a growing gap of man's understanding of the universe as a potential for horror, most notably in "The Colour Out of Space", where the inability of science to comprehend a contaminated meteorite leads to horror.   In a letter to James F. Morton in 1923, Lovecraft specifically pointed to Einstein's theory on relativity as throwing the world into chaos and making the cosmos a jest; in a letter to Woodburn Harris in 1929, he speculated that technological comforts risk the collapse of science. Indeed, at a time when men viewed science as limitless and powerful, Lovecraft imagined alternative potential and fearful outcomes. In "The Call of Cthulhu", Lovecraft's characters encounter architecture which is "abnormal, non-Euclidean, and loathsomely redolent of spheres and dimensions apart from ours". Non-Euclidean geometry is the mathematical language and background of Einstein's general theory of relativity, and Lovecraft references it repeatedly in exploring alien archaeology.  Religion   Lovecraft's works are ruled by several distinct pantheons of deities (actually aliens worshiped as such by humans) who are either indifferent or actively hostile to humanity. Lovecraft's actual philosophy has been termed "cosmic indifference" and this is expressed in his fiction. Several of Lovecraft's stories of the Old Ones (alien beings of the Cthulhu Mythos) propose alternate mythic human origins in contrast to those found in the creation stories of existing religions, expanding on a natural world view. For instance, in Lovecraft's At the Mountains of Madness it is proposed that humankind was actually created as a slave race by the Old Ones, and that life on Earth as we know it evolved from scientific experiments abandoned by the Elder Things. Protagonist characters in Lovecraft are usually educated men, citing scientific and rational evidence to support their non-faith. Herbert West–Reanimator reflects on the atheism common in academic circles. In "The Silver Key", the character Randolph Carter loses the ability to dream and seeks solace in religion, specifically Congregationalism, but does not find it and ultimately loses faith.   Lovecraft himself adopted the stance of atheism early in life. In 1932, he wrote in a letter to Robert E. Howard:    All I say is that I think it is damned unlikely that anything like a central cosmic will, a spirit world, or an eternal survival of personality exist. They are the most preposterous and unjustified of all the guesses which can be made about the universe, and I am not enough of a hairsplitter to pretend that I don't regard them as arrant and negligible moonshine. In theory, I am an agnostic, but pending the appearance of radical evidence I must be classed, practically and provisionally, as an atheist. Superstition   In 1926, famed magician and escapist Harry Houdini asked Lovecraft to ghostwrite a treatise exploring the topic of superstition. Houdini's unexpected death later that year halted the project, but The Cancer of Superstition was partially completed by Lovecraft along with collaborator C. M. Eddy Jr. A previously unknown manuscript of the work was discovered in 2016 in a collection owned by a magic shop. The book states "all superstitious beliefs are relics of a common 'prehistoric ignorance' in humans," and goes on to explore various superstitious beliefs in different cultures and times."  Notable Recordings   - Roddy McDowall was the reader of "The Outsider" and "The Hound" on the 1966 album Roddy McDowall reads the Horror Stories of H. P. Lovecraft released by Lively Arts (Lively Arts 30003). - In the 1970s, Caedmon Records released three albums of readings by noted actor David McCallum: The Rats in the Walls (1973; TC 1347), The Dunwich Horror (1976; TC 1467) and The Haunter of the Dark (1979; TC 1617). - In 1975, Erik Bauersfeld released audio productions of the Lovecraft stories "The Outsider" and "The Rats in the Walls" (both of which had been previously heard on his radio series The Black Mass) in a limited and numbered pressing on Lava Mt. Records (HPL 235). He also released a limited and numbered recording of The Haunter of the Dark on Lava Mt. Records (HPL 236) in 1977. Influences   Some of Lovecraft's work was inspired by his own nightmares. His interest started from his childhood days when his grandfather would tell him Gothic horror stories.   Lovecraft's most significant literary influence was Edgar Allan Poe. He had a British writing style due to his love of British literature. Like Lovecraft, Poe's work was out of step with the prevailing literary trends of his era. Both authors created distinctive, singular worlds of fantasy and employed archaisms in their writings. This influence can be found in such works as his novella The Shadow over Innsmouth where Lovecraft references Poe's story "The Imp of the Perverse" by name in Chapter 3, and in his poem "Nemesis", where the "... ghoul-guarded gateways of slumber" suggest the "... ghoul-haunted woodland of Weir" found in Poe's "Ulalume". A direct quote from the poem and a reference to Poe's only novel The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket is alluded to in Lovecraft's magnum opus At the Mountains of Madness. Both authors shared many biographical similarities as well, such as the loss of their fathers at young ages and an early interest in poetry.   He was influenced by Arthur Machen's carefully constructed tales concerning the survival of ancient evil into modern times in an otherwise realistic world and his beliefs in hidden mysteries which lay behind reality. Lovecraft was also influenced by authors such as Oswald Spengler and Robert W. Chambers. Chambers was the writer of The King in Yellow, of whom Lovecraft wrote in a letter to Clark Ashton Smith: "Chambers is like Rupert Hughes and a few other fallen Titans – equipped with the right brains and education but wholly out of the habit of using them". Lovecraft's discovery of the stories of Lord Dunsany, with their pantheon of mighty gods existing in dreamlike outer realms, moved his writing in a new direction, resulting in a series of imitative fantasies in a "Dreamlands" setting.   Lovecraft also cited Algernon Blackwood as an influence, quoting The Centaur in the head paragraph of "The Call of Cthulhu". He declared Blackwood's story "The Willows" to be the single best piece of weird fiction ever written.   Another inspiration came from a completely different source: scientific progress in biology, astronomy, geology, and physics. His study of science contributed to Lovecraft's view of the human race as insignificant, powerless, and doomed in a materialistic and mechanistic universe. Lovecraft was a keen amateur astronomer from his youth, often visiting the Ladd Observatory in Providence, and penning numerous astronomical articles for local newspapers. His astronomical telescope is now housed in the rooms of the August Derleth Society.   Lovecraft's materialist views led him to espouse his philosophical views through his fiction; these philosophical views came to be called cosmicism. Cosmicism took on a dark tone with his creation of what is today often called the Cthulhu Mythos, a pantheon of alien extra-dimensional deities and horrors which predate humanity, and which are hinted at in eons-old myths and legends. The term "Cthulhu Mythos" was coined by Lovecraft's correspondent and fellow author, August Derleth, after Lovecraft's death; Lovecraft jocularly referred to his artificial mythology as "Yog-Sothothery".   Lovecraft considered himself a man best suited to the early 18th century. His writing style, especially in his many letters, owes much to Augustan British writers of the Enlightenment like Joseph Addison and Jonathan Swift.   Among the books found in his library (as evidenced in Lovecraft's Library by S. T. Joshi) was The Seven Who Were Hanged by Leonid Andreyev and A Strange Manuscript Found in a Copper Cylinder by James De Mille.   Lovecraft's style has often been subject to criticism, yet scholars such as S. T. Joshi have shown that Lovecraft consciously utilized a variety of literary devices to form a unique style of his own – these include conscious archaism, prose-poetic techniques combined with essay-form techniques, alliteration, anaphora, crescendo, transferred epithet, metaphor, symbolism, and colloquialism.  Influence on culture  H. P. Lovecraft memorial plaque at 22 Prospect Street in Providence. Main articles: Lovecraftian horror and Cthulhu Mythos in popular culture   Lovecraft was relatively unknown during his own time. While his stories appeared in the pages of prominent pulp magazines such as Weird Tales (eliciting letters of outrage as often as letters of praise from regular readers), not many people knew his name. He did, however, correspond regularly with other contemporary writers such as Clark Ashton Smith and August Derleth, who became good friends of his, even though they never met in person. This group of writers became known as the "Lovecraft Circle", since their writing freely borrowed elements of Lovecraft's stories, with his encouragement: the mysterious books with disturbing names, the pantheon of ancient alien entities such as Cthulhu and Azathoth, and eldritch places such as the New England town of Arkham and its Miskatonic University.   After Lovecraft's death, the Lovecraft Circle carried on. August Derleth in particular added to and expanded on Lovecraft's vision, not without controversy. While Lovecraft considered his pantheon of alien gods a mere plot device, Derleth created an entire cosmology, complete with a war between the good Elder Gods and the evil Outer Gods, such as Cthulhu and his ilk. The forces of good were supposed to have won, locking Cthulhu and others up beneath the earth, in the ocean, and so forth. Derleth's Cthulhu Mythos stories went on to associate different gods with the traditional four elements of fire, air, earth and water — an artificial constraint which required rationalizations on Derleth's part as Lovecraft himself never envisioned such a scheme.   Lovecraft's fiction has been grouped into three categories by some critics. While Lovecraft did not refer to these categories himself, he did once write: "There are my 'Poe' pieces and my 'Dunsany pieces' — but alas — where are any Lovecraft pieces?"    - Macabre stories (c. 1905–1920); - Dream Cycle stories (c. 1920–1927); - Cthulhu / Lovecraft Mythos stories (c. 1925–1935).   Lovecraft's writing, particularly the so-called Cthulhu Mythos, has influenced fiction authors including modern horror and fantasy writers. Stephen King, Ramsey Campbell, Bentley Little, Joe R. Lansdale, Alan Moore, Junji Ito, F. Paul Wilson, Brian Lumley, Caitlín R. Kiernan, William S. Burroughs, and Neil Gaiman, have cited Lovecraft as one of their primary influences. Beyond direct adaptation, Lovecraft and his stories have had a profound impact on popular culture. Some influence was direct, as he was a friend, inspiration, and correspondent to many of his contemporaries, such as August Derleth, Robert E. Howard, Robert Bloch and Fritz Leiber. Many later figures were influenced by Lovecraft's works, including author and artist Clive Barker, prolific horror writer Stephen King, Brian Keene has several novels based on the Old Gods, comics writers Alan Moore, Neil Gaiman and Mike Mignola, English author Colin Wilson, film directors John Carpenter, Stuart Gordon, Guillermo del Toro and artist H. R. Giger. Japan has also been significantly inspired and terrified by Lovecraft's creations and thus even entered the manga and anime media. Chiaki J. Konaka is an acknowledged disciple and has participated in Cthulhu Mythos, expanding several Japanese versions. He is an anime scriptwriter who tends to add elements of cosmicism, and is credited for spreading the influence of Lovecraft among the anime base. Along with Junji Ito, other influential manga artists have also been inspired by Lovecraft. Novelist and manga author, Hideyuki Kikuchi, incorporated a number of locations, beings and events from the works of Lovecraft into the manga Taimashin.   Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges wrote his short story "There Are More Things" in memory of Lovecraft. Contemporary French writer Michel Houellebecq wrote a literary biography of Lovecraft called H. P. Lovecraft: Against the World, Against Life. Prolific American writer Joyce Carol Oates wrote an introduction for a collection of Lovecraft stories. The Library of America published a volume of Lovecraft's work in 2005, a reversal of traditional judgment that "has been nothing so far from the accepted canon as Lovecraft". French philosophers Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari refer to Lovecraft in A Thousand Plateaus, calling the short story "Through the Gates of the Silver Key" one of his masterpieces.  Music This section appears to contain trivial, minor, or unrelated references to popular culture. Please reorganize this content to explain the subject's impact on popular culture, using references to reliable sources, rather than simply listing appearances. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2018)   Lovecraft's fictional Mythos has influenced a number of musicians.    - The psychedelic rock band H. P. Lovecraft (who shortened their name to Lovecraft and then Love Craft in the 1970s) released the albums H. P. Lovecraft and H. P. Lovecraft II in 1967 and 1968 respectively; their titles included "The White Ship" and "At the Mountains of Madness", both titled after Lovecraft stories. The founders of their record company, Bill Traut and George Badonsky, were fans of the author and gained August Derleth's permission to use Lovecraft's name for the band. - Metallica recorded a song inspired by "The Call of Cthulhu", an instrumental titled "The Call of Ktulu", and another song based on The Shadow over Innsmouth titled "The Thing That Should Not Be", and another based on Frank Belknap Long's "Hounds of Tindalos", titled "All Nightmare Long". Later, they released the song "Dream No More", which mentions the awakening of Cthulhu. - The Darkest of the Hillside Thickets' entire repertoire is Lovecraft-based. - German metal group Mekong Delta made an album called The Music of Erich Zann. - "You're So Dark", B-side from AM's "One For The Road", by Arctic Monkeys, mentions Lovecraft as one of the authors of the "dark" culture along with Edgar Allan Poe. - Heavy metal band Mercyful Fate produced "The Mad Arab (Part 1)" and "Kutulu (The Mad Arab Part 2)" on their albums Time and Into The Unknown based on Abdul Alhazred, the "Mad Arab" who created the Necronomicon in the Lovecraft universe. - "Lovecraft in Brooklyn" is the eighth track on the Mountain Goats' 2000 album Heretic Pride. - Deathrock band Rudimentary Peni's Cacophony (album) from 1988 was inspired by Lovecraft's work, as many of the song titles and lyrics are derived from his writing. Lead vocalist and guitarist Nick Blinko has cited his fascination with the Lovecraft mythos is what influenced him to create the album. - Cradle of Filth's song "Mother of Abominations" begins with the chant, "Ia Ia Chtulhu Ftagn". - The Norwegian classical composer Martin Romberg wrote a concerto for violin and string orchestra in five parts after Lovecrafts youth-poems "Poemata Minora". The work won the "work of the year" award from the Norwegian Society of Composers and Lyricists in 2015. - Several funeral doom bands, such as Thergothon and Catacombs make extensive use of Lovecraftian themes. Games   Lovecraft has also influenced gaming, despite having hated games during his lifetime. Chaosium's tabletop role-playing game Call of Cthulhu, released in 1981 and currently in its seventh major edition, was one of the first games to draw heavily from Lovecraft. Novel to the game was the Lovecraft-inspired insanity mechanic, which allowed for player characters to go insane from contact with cosmic horrors. This mechanic would go on to make appearance in subsequent table top and video games. 1987 saw the release of one of the first Lovecraftian board games, Arkham Horror, which sold extremely well. Though few subsequent Lovecraftian board games were released annually between 1987 and 2014, the years after 2014 saw a surge in the number of Lovecraftian board games, possibly because of the entry of Lovecraft's work into the public domain combined with a revival of interest in board games.   Few video games are direct adaptations of Lovecraft's works, but many video games have been inspired or heavily influenced by Lovecraft. The massively-multiplayer online game World of Warcraft by Blizzard Entertainment has continually revealed more of the origin story of the game's playable world to the players, most of which very closely mirrors Lovecraft's work or Derleth's expansion onto the author's original content. Horror games especially can incorporate Cthulthean terrors, despite the conflict between "act-and-prevail" nature of video games and the cosmic hopelessness of Lovecraftian horror. Besides employing Cthulthean antagonists, games that invoke Lovecraftian horror have used mechanics such as insanity effects, or even fourth wall breaking effects that suggest to players that something has gone wrong with their game consoles.  Lovecraft as a character in fiction   Aside from his thinly veiled appearance in Robert Bloch's "The Shambler from the Stars", Lovecraft continues to be used as a character in supernatural fiction. An early version of Ray Bradbury's "The Exiles" uses Lovecraft as a character, who makes a brief, 600-word appearance eating ice cream in front of a fire and complaining about how cold he is. Lovecraft and some associates are included at length in Robert Anton Wilson and Robert Shea's The Illuminatus! Trilogy (1975). Lovecraft makes an appearance as a rotting corpse in The Chinatown Death Cloud Peril by Paul Malmont, a novel with fictionalized versions of a number of period writers. John Shirley's story When Death Wakes Me To Myself offers a tale of a therapy patient slowly remembering a former incarnation when he was H.P. Lovecraft. German writer Wolfgang Hohlbein used H. P. Lovecraft as a main character in his pulp fiction series Der Hexer (The Wizard), which is mainly based on the Cthulhu Mythos, even though the plot takes place before Lovecraft was born.   Other notable works with Lovecraft as a character include Richard Lupoff's Lovecraft's Book (1985), Cast a Deadly Spell (1991), H.P. Lovecraft's: Necronomicon (1993), Witch Hunt (1994), Out of Mind: The Stories of H. P. Lovecraft (1998), Stargate SG-1: Roswell (2007), and Alan Moore's comic Providence (2015–17). Lovecraft also appears in the Season 6, Episode 21 episode "Let it Bleed" of the TV show Supernatural. A satirical version of Lovecraft named "H. P. Hatecraft" appeared as a recurring character on the Cartoon Network television series Scooby-Doo! Mystery Incorporated. A character based on Lovecraft also appears in the visual novel Shikkoku no Sharnoth: What a Beautiful Tomorrow, under the name "Howard Phillips" (or "Mr. Howard" to most of the main characters).[citation needed]. Another character based on Lovecraft appears in Afterlife with Archie. He appears as a minor character in Brian Clevinger's comic book series Atomic Robo, as an acquaintance and fellow-scientist of Nikola Tesla, having been driven insane by his involvement in the Tunguska event which exposed him to the hidden horrors of the wider universe. He is eventually killed when his body becomes host to an extradimensional being infecting the timestream.[citation needed]. Lovecraft is a central plot element, as well as a character in Paul La Farge's 2017 novel, The Night Ocean. In the Japanese manga and anime Bungo Stray Dogs there is a character known as Howard Phillips Lovecraft who, like other characters in the series, is named after great literates. Even his power, "The Great Old Ones" pays homage to his classic book, "The Call of Cthulhu", which grants him the ability of transforming himself into an octopus-like monster resembling Cthulhu.   The short story "The Invention of H. P. Lovecraft" by S. K. Azoulay suggests that Lovecraft was a fictional creation invented by Jorge Luis Borges.   In Howard Lovecraft and the Frozen Kingdom, Howard Lovecraft is re-imagined as a seven year old version of himself, long before he became the famed horror writer H.P. Lovecraft.   In the series, dark creatures like Shaggoths, Night Gaunts and Outer Gods like Azathoth are not something from H.P.'s imagination and writings but are things he himself witnesses and encounters.  The movie derived its world and characters from the Cthulhu Mythos created by Lovecraft and is based on the book series of the same name.   Editions and collections of Lovecraft's work   For most of the 20th century, the definitive editions (specifically At the Mountains of Madness and Other Novels, Dagon and Other Macabre Tales, The Dunwich Horror and Others, and The Horror in the Museum and Other Revisions) of his prose fiction were published by Arkham House, a publisher originally started with the intent of publishing the work of Lovecraft, but which has since published a considerable amount of other literature as well. Penguin Classics has at present issued three volumes of Lovecraft's works: The Call of Cthulhu and Other Weird Stories, The Thing on the Doorstep and Other Weird Stories, and most recently The Dreams in the Witch House and Other Weird Stories. They collect the standard texts as edited by S. T. Joshi, most of which were available in the Arkham House editions, with the exception of the restored text of "The Shadow Out of Time" from The Dreams in the Witch House, which had been previously released by small-press publisher Hippocampus Press. In 2005 the prestigious Library of America canonized Lovecraft with a volume of his stories edited by Peter Straub, and Random House's Modern Library line have issued the "definitive edition" of Lovecraft's At the Mountains of Madness (also including "Supernatural Horror in Literature").   Lovecraft's poetry is collected in The Ancient Track: The Complete Poetical Works of H. P. Lovecraft (Night Shade Books, 2001), while much of his juvenilia, various essays on philosophical, political and literary topics, antiquarian travelogues, and other things, can be found in Miscellaneous Writings (Arkham House, 1989). Lovecraft's essay "Supernatural Horror in Literature", first published in 1927, is a historical survey of horror literature available with endnotes as The Annotated Supernatural Horror in Literature.  Letters   Although Lovecraft is known mostly for his works of weird fiction, the bulk of his writing consists of voluminous letters about a variety of topics, from weird fiction and art criticism to politics and history. Lovecraft's biographer L. Sprague de Camp estimates that Lovecraft wrote 100,000 letters in his lifetime, a fifth of which are believed to survive.   He sometimes dated his letters 200 years before the current date, which would have put the writing back in US colonial times, before the American Revolution (a war that offended his Anglophilia). He explained that he thought that the 18th and 20th centuries were the "best", the former being a period of noble grace, and the latter a century of science.   Lovecraft was not an active letter-writer in youth. In 1931 he admitted: "In youth I scarcely did any letter-writing — thanking anybody for a present was so much of an ordeal that I would rather have written a two hundred fifty-line pastoral or a twenty-page treatise on the rings of Saturn." (SL 3.369–70). The initial interest in letters stemmed from his correspondence with his cousin Phillips Gamwell but even more important was his involvement in the amateur journalism movement, which was initially responsible for the enormous number of letters Lovecraft produced.   Despite his light letter-writing in youth, in later life his correspondence was so voluminous that it has been estimated that he may have written around 30,000 letters to various correspondents, a figure which places him second only to Voltaire as an epistolarian. Lovecraft's later correspondence is primarily to fellow weird fiction writers, rather than to the amateur journalist friends of his earlier years.   Lovecraft clearly states that his contact to numerous different people through letter-writing was one of the main factors in broadening his view of the world: "I found myself opened up to dozens of points of view which would otherwise never have occurred to me. My understanding and sympathies were enlarged, and many of my social, political, and economic views were modified as a consequence of increased knowledge." (SL 4.389).   Today there are five publishing houses that have released letters from Lovecraft, most prominently Arkham House with its five-volume edition Selected Letters (these volumes severely abridge the letters they contain). Other publishers are Hippocampus Press (Letters to Alfred Galpin et al.), Night Shade Books (Mysteries of Time and Spirit: The Letters of H. P. Lovecraft and Donald Wandrei et al..), Necronomicon Press (Letters to Samuel Loveman and Vincent Starrett et al.), and University of Tampa Press (O Fortunate Floridian: H. P. Lovecraft's Letters to R. H. Barlow). S. T. Joshi is supervising an ongoing series of volumes collecting Lovecraft's unabridged letters to particular correspondents.   Lord of a Visible World: An Autobiography in Letters was published in 2000, in which Lovecraft's letters are arranged according to themes, such as adolescence and travel.  Copyright   Despite several claims to the contrary, there is currently no evidence that any company or individual owns the copyright to any of Lovecraft's work, and it is generally accepted that it has passed into the public domain.   There has been controversy over the copyright status of many of Lovecraft's works, especially his later works. Lovecraft had specified that the young R. H. Barlow would serve as executor of his literary estate, but these instructions were not incorporated into the will. Nevertheless, his surviving aunt carried out his expressed wishes, and Barlow was given charge of the massive and complex literary estate upon Lovecraft's death.   Barlow deposited the bulk of the papers, including the voluminous correspondence, with the John Hay Library, and attempted to organize and maintain Lovecraft's other writing. August Derleth, an older and more established writer than Barlow, vied for control of the literary estate. One result of these conflicts was the legal confusion over who owned what copyrights.   All works published before 1924 are public domain in the US. With respect to works published later, ownership of the copyrights is disputed. Before the United States Copyright Act of 1976, copyright lasted for 28 years from publication and a work that did not have its copyright renewed passed into the public domain. The Copyright Act of 1976 retroactively extended this renewal period for all works to a period of 47 years and the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act of 1998 added another 20 years to that, for a total of 95 years from publication. But everything turned on the renewal or expiration of copyright at the end of the first 28-year term.   The European Union Copyright Duration Directive of 1993 extended the copyrights to 70 years after the author's death. All of Lovecraft's works published during his lifetime became public domain in all 27 European Union countries on January 1, 2008. In those Berne Convention countries that have implemented only the minimum copyright period, copyright expires 50 years after the author's death.   Lovecraft protégés and part owners of Arkham House, August Derleth and Donald Wandrei, often claimed copyrights over Lovecraft's works. On October 9, 1947, Derleth purchased all rights to Weird Tales. However, since April 1926 at the latest, Lovecraft had reserved to himself all second printing rights to stories published in Weird Tales. Weird Tales may only have owned the rights to at most six of Lovecraft's tales. Again, even if Derleth did obtain the copyrights to Lovecraft's tales, there is no evidence that the copyrights were renewed. Following Derleth's death in 1971, his attorney proclaimed that all of Lovecraft's literary material was part of the Derleth estate and that it would be "protected to the fullest extent possible."   S. T. Joshi concludes in his biography of Lovecraft that Derleth's claims are "almost certainly fictitious" and that most of Lovecraft's works published in the amateur press are most likely now in the public domain. The copyright for Lovecraft's works would have been inherited by the only surviving heir named in his 1912 will, his aunt Annie Gamwell. When Gamwell died in 1941, the copyrights passed to her remaining descendants, Ethel Phillips Morrish and Edna Lewis, who then signed a document, sometimes referred to as the Morrish-Lewis gift, permitting Arkham House to republish Lovecraft's works while retaining the copyrights for themselves. Searches of the Library of Congress have failed to find any evidence that these copyrights were renewed after the 28-year period, making it likely that these works are now in the public domain.   Chaosium, publishers of the Call of Cthulhu role-playing game, have a trademark on the phrase "The Call of Cthulhu" for use in game products. TSR, Inc., original publisher of the Advanced Dungeons & Dragons role-playing game, included a section on the Cthulhu Mythos in one of the game's earlier supplements, Deities & Demigods (originally published in 1980 and later renamed to "Legends & Lore"). TSR later agreed to remove this section at Chaosium's request.   In 2009, Lovecraft Holdings, LLC, a company based out of Providence, filed trademark claims for clothing graphics of Lovecraft's name and silhouette.   Regardless of the legal disagreements surrounding Lovecraft's works, Lovecraft himself was extremely generous with his own works and encouraged others to borrow ideas from his stories and build on them, particularly with regard to his Cthulhu Mythos.[citation needed] He encouraged other writers to reference his creations, such as the Necronomicon, Cthulhu and Yog-Sothoth.[citation needed] After his death, many writers have contributed stories and enriched the shared mythology of the Cthulhu Mythos, as well as making numerous references to his work.  World Fantasy Award and H. P. Lovecraft controversy Main article: World Fantasy Award § H. P. Lovecraft bust   In 1984, writer Donald Wandrei caused some controversy after he was offered a World Fantasy Award for Life Achievement but refused to accept it because the award was a bust of H. P. Lovecraft that he felt looked more like a caricature of Lovecraft than an actual representation.   In August 2014, author Daniel José Older started a petition to change the World Fantasy Award statuette from a bust of Lovecraft to one of African-American author Octavia Butler. Kevin J. Maroney, editor of The New York Review of Science Fiction, also supported the call for the WFA to be changed from Lovecraft's face, suggesting it be replaced with a symbol representing the fantasy genre. Maroney argued this should be done "not out of disrespect for Lovecraft as a writer or as a central figure in fantasy, but as a courtesy to generations of writers whom the WFA hopes to honor." In response to the campaign, the board of the World Fantasy Awards announced in September 2014 that it was "in discussion" about the future of the award statuette, and in November 2015 it was announced that the World Fantasy Award trophy would no longer be modeled on H. P. Lovecraft.  Locations featured in Lovecraft stories Main article: Lovecraft Country   Lovecraft drew extensively from his native New England for settings in his fiction. Numerous real historical locations are mentioned, and several fictional New England locations make frequent appearances.  Bibliography Main article: H. P. Lovecraft bibliography Documentary biographies and movies portrayals   - Weird Tales: The Strange Life of H. P. Lovecraft (2006). - Lovecraft: Fear of the Unknown (2008). - La Herencia Valdemar II: La Sombra Prohibida (2010 Spanish movie inspired by Lovecraft where he was also portrayed in a small role) - Howard Lovecraft and the Frozen Kingdom (2016 Canadian animated fictional movie inspired by the writings of H. P. Lovecraft). References    1. ^ Joshi, S. T. (1990). The Weird Tale. University of Texas Press. ISBN 978-0-292-79050-6.  2. ^ Joshi, S. T. (September 2003). "Introduction". The Weird Tale. Wildside Press. ISBN 978-0-8095-3123-3.  3. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 16.  4. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 13.  5. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 8.  6. ^ a b Joshi 2013, p. 26.  7. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 22.  8. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 24.  9. ^ de Camp 1975, p. 16.  10. ^ de Camp 1975, p. 2.  11. ^ a b Joshi 2013, p. 28.  12. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 33.  13. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 36.  14. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 34.  15. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 38.  16. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 42.  17. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 60.  18. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 84.  19. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 90.  20. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 97.  21. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 96.  22. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 98.  23. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 99.  24. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 102.  25. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 116.  26. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 126.  27. ^ de Camp 1975, p. 27.  28. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 127.  29. ^ a b c Joshi 2013, p. 128.  30. ^ de Camp 1975, p. 66.  31. ^ a b Poole 2016, p. 86.  32. ^ de Camp 1975, p. 64.  33. ^ Poole 2016, p. 82.  34. ^ Poole 2016, p. 84.  35. ^ Poole 2016, p. 85.  36. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 129.  37. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 137.  38. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 138.  39. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 140.  40. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 145.  41. ^ de Camp 1975, p. 84.  42. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 155.  43. ^ a b Joshi 2013, p. 159.  44. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 164.  45. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 165.  46. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 168.  47. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 169.  48. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 180.  49. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 182.  50. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 210.  51. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 237.  52. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 239.  53. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 240.  54. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 251.  55. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 284.  56. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 260.  57. ^ a b Joshi 2013, p. 287.  58. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 288.  59. ^ a b Poole 2017, p. 93.  60. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 303.  61. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 300.  62. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 301.  63. ^ a b Poole 2017, p. 97.  64. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 305.  65. ^ Poole 2017, p. 83-84.  66. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 306.  67. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 308.  68. ^ de Camp 1975, p. 142.  69. ^ Roland 2014, p. 56.  70. ^ Roland 2014, p. 69.  71. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 369.  72. ^ a b de Camp 1975, p. 149.  73. ^ a b Joshi 2013, p. 390.  74. ^ Joshi 2013, p. 400.  75. ^ a b Fooy, Frederick (October 27, 2011). "Resident Horror Genius". southbrooklynpost.com. South Brooklyn Post. Retrieved August 3, 2016.  76. ^ a b c d de Camp, L Sprague. Lovecraft: a Biography.  77. ^ a b S. T. Joshi; David E. Schultz, eds. (2001). "Weiss, Henry George". An H.P. Lovecraft Encyclopedia. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 294. ISBN 978-0-313-31578-7.  78. ^ a b Donald Tyson (November 1, 2010). The Dream World of H. P. Lovecraft. Llewellyn Worldwide. p. 75. ISBN 978-0-7387-2829-2.  79. ^ The Dream World of H. P. Lovecraft: His Life, His Demons, His Universe (2010) – Donald Tyson ISBN 978-0-7387-2829-2  80. ^ a b c Houellebecq, Michel (2005), H. P. Lovecraft: Against the World, Against Life, San Francisco: Believer Books.  81. ^ Joshi, S. T (2001). A Dreamer and a Visionary: H.P. Lovecraft in His Time. Liverpool University Press. pp. 224–25. ISBN 978-0-85323-946-8.  82. ^ Rubinton, Noel (August 10, 2016). "How to Find the Spirit of H.P. Lovecraft in Providence". The New York Times – via www.nytimes.com.  83. ^ An H.P. Lovecraft Encyclopedia, edited by S. T. Joshi, David E. Schultz, page 117  84. ^ James Arthur Anderson (September 30, 2014). "Charles Dexter Ward". Out of the Shadows: A Structuralist Approach to Understanding the Fiction of H. P. Lovecraft. Wildside Press LLC. p. 89. ISBN 978-1-4794-0384-4.  85. ^ S. T. Joshi, H.P. Lovecraft: A Life, p.455  86. ^ Ronan, Margaret, Forward to The Shadow Over Innsmouth and Other Stories of Horror, Scholastic Book Services, 1971  87. ^ a b c d Joshi, S. T. (2001). A Dreamer and a Visionary: H.P. Lovecraft in His Time. Liverpool University Press. pp. 95, 97, 111, 221–222, 359–360. ISBN 978-0-85323-946-8. Retrieved September 17, 2013.  88. ^ "Notable Persons Interred at Swan Point Cemetery | Civil War Veterans | Governors | Swan Point Cemetery". swanpointcemetery.com. Retrieved 2016-01-14.  89. ^ Bilow, Michael (July 27, 2013). "We are Providence: The H.P. Lovecraft Community". Motif Magazine. Providence, Rhode Island. Retrieved August 4, 2013.  90. ^ a b Gale, Floyd C. (April 1960). "Galaxy's 5 Star Shelf". Galaxy Science Fiction. pp. 100–103.  91. ^ Joyce Carol Oates (October 31, 1996). "The King of Weird". The New York Review of Books. 43 (17). Retrieved February 15, 2009.  92. ^ Wohleber, Curt (December 1995). "The Man Who Can Scare Stephen King". American Heritage. 46 (8). Retrieved September 10, 2013.  93. ^ The Best of H. P. Lovecraft: Bloodcurdling Tales of Horror and the Macabre, Del Rey Books, 1982, front cover.  94. ^ King, Stephen (February 1987). Danse Macabre. Berkley. p. 63. ISBN 978-0-425-10433-0. Archived from the original on October 4, 2013. Retrieved September 17, 2013.  95. ^ Michael Saler (2011). As If: Modern Enchantment and the Literary Prehistory of Virtual Reality. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-988780-4., note no. 66  96. ^ LA Review of Books, April 6, 2013 Let's Get Weird  97. ^ Weird Realism: Lovecraft and Philosophy (2013) Graham Harman  98. ^ ASK/TELL, October 23, 2011 Interview with Graham Harman  99. ^ New Critical Essays on H.P. Lovecraft,(2013)Chapter nine  100. ^ H. P. Lovecraft Letter to Farnsworth Wright (July 27, 1927), in Selected Letters 1925–1929 (Sauk City, Wisconsin: Arkham House, 1968), p.150.  101. ^ a b Burleson, Donald R. (1991). "On Lovecraft's Themes: Touching the Glass". In Schultz, David E.; Joshi, S. T. An Epicure in the Terrible: A Centennial Anthology of Essays in Honor of H.P. Lovecraft. Fairleigh Dickinson University Press. pp. 135–147. ISBN 978-0-8386-3415-8. Retrieved September 17, 2013.  102. ^ Dziemianowicz, Stefan (1991). "Outsiders and Aliens: The Uses of Isolation in Lovecraft's Fiction". In Schultz, David E.; Joshi, S. T. An Epicure in the Terrible: A Centennial Anthology of Essays in Honor of H.P. Lovecraft. Fairleigh Dickinson University Press. pp. 159–187. ISBN 978-0-8386-3415-8. Retrieved September 17, 2013.  103. ^ a b Hambly, Barbara (1996). Introduction: The Man Who Loved His Craft. The transition of H. P. Lovecraft: the road to madness. The Random House Publishing Group. p. viii. ISBN 978-0-345-38422-5.  104. ^ Burleson, Donald (1990). Lovecraft: Disturbing the Universe. the University Press of Kentucky. ISBN 978-0-8131-1728-7.  105. ^ Schweitzer, Darrell (2001). Discovering H. P. Lovecraft. Borgo Press. p. 14. ISBN 978-1-58715-471-3.  106. ^ Price, Robert M. (1991). Introduction:The New Lovecraft Circle. Random House Publishing. ISBN 978-0-345-44406-6.  107. ^ St. Armand, Barton Levi (1991). "Synchronistic Worlds: Lovecraft and Borges". In Schultz, David E.; Joshi, S. T. An Epicure in the Terrible: A Centennial Anthology of Essays in Honor of H.P. Lovecraft. Fairleigh Dickinson University Press. pp. 319–320. ISBN 978-0-8386-3415-8. Retrieved September 17, 2013.  108. ^ "How Cthulhu Works". howstuffworks.com. September 4, 2007.  109. ^ S. T. Joshi, H. P. Lovecraft: Decline of the West, (Starmont Studies in Literary Criticism, No. 37), Borgo Pr, 1991, ISBN 978-1-55742-208-8.  110. ^ China Miéville's introduction to "At the Mountains of Madness", Modern Library Classics, 2005  111. ^ Joshi 1996, p. 38  112. ^ a b c d e f Joshi, S. T. (1996). A Subtler Magick: The Writings and Philosophy of H. P. Lovecraft. Borgo Press. pp. 22, 41–42, 76–77, 107–108, 162, 229, 230. ISBN 978-1-880448-61-8.  113. ^ a b c d e Steiner, Bernd (2005). H. P. Lovecraft and the Literature of the fantastic: explorations in a Literary Genre. GRIN Verlag. pp. 54–55. ISBN 978-3-638-84462-8.  114. ^ a b c d e Tyson, Donald (2010). The Dream World of H. P. Lovecraft: His Life, His Demons, His Universe. Llewellyn Publications. pp. 5–6, 57–59. ISBN 978-0-7387-2284-9.  115. ^ H. P. Lovecraft, four decades of criticism by S. T. Joshi - Ohio University Press, 1980 ISBN 978-0-8214-0577-2  116. ^ H.P. Lovecraft: A Life by S. T. Joshi Necronomicon Press, 1996 ISBN 978-0-940884-88-5  117. ^ David Punter, (1996), The Literature of Terror: A History of Gothic Fictions from 1765 to the Present Day, Vol. I, 'Modern Gothic", p. 40.  118. ^ Bloch, Robert (1982). Introduction: Heritage of Horror. The Best of H. P. Lovecraft: Bloodcurdling Tales of Horror and the Macabre. The Random House Publishing Group. p. xii. ISBN 978-0-345-38422-5.  119. ^ a b c Mieville, China (2005). Introduction. At the Mountains of Madness. The Random House Publishing Group. p. xvii–xx. ISBN 978-0-8129-7441-6.  120. ^ Schweitzer, Darrell (1998). Windows of the Imagination. Wildside Press. pp. 94–95. ISBN 1-880448-60-2.  121. ^ Schwader, Ann (2004). Mail Order Bride. Eldritch Blue: Love and Sex in the Cthulhu Mythos. Lindisfarne Press. p. 59. ISBN 978-0-9740297-5-7.  122. ^ Lovecraft, "The Call of Cthulhu", p. 151.  123. ^ Mosig, Yozan Dirk W. "Lovecraft: The Dissonance Factor in imaginary Literature" (1979).  124. ^ H. P. Lovecraft Letter to Robert E. Howard (August 16, 1932), in Selected Letters 1932–1934 (Sauk City, Wisconsin: Arkham House, 1976), p. 57."  125. ^ Alison Flood, Lost HP Lovecraft work commissioned by Houdini escapes shackles of history, The Guardian 16 March 2016.  126. ^ FRANCH, J., & MACROBERT, A. (2015). Cosmic Dread: THE ASTRONOMY OF H. P. LOVECRAFT. Sky & Telescope, 129(2), 34-39.  127. ^ "Lovecraft's Shadow Over Innsmouth". Donovan K. Loucks.  128. ^ "Lovecraft's Nemesis". Donovan K. Loucks.  129. ^ Poe, Edgar Allan. " Ulalume". Wikisource.   130. ^ ""At the Mountains of Madness" by H. P. Lovecraft". www.hplovecraft.com. Retrieved 2017-02-24.  131. ^ a b "Weird realism: John Gray on the moral universe of H P Lovecraft". www.newstatesman.com.  132. ^ Power, Ed (October 30, 2016). "Cthulhu's evil overlord: the monstrous world of HP Lovecraft". The Telegraph – via www.telegraph.co.uk.  133. ^ Lovecraft, H. P. (1938) [Written 1927]. " The Modern Masters". Supernatural Horror in Literature. Wikisource. "The well-nigh endless array of Mr. Blackwood's fiction includes both novels and shorter tales ... Foremost of all must be reckoned The Willows ... Here art and restraint in narrative reach their very highest development, and an impression of lasting poignancy is produced without a,  single strained passage or a single false note."   134. ^ "7 Obsessions That Influenced H. P. Lovecraft's Work". Mental Floss. Retrieved 2017-02-24.  135. ^ Rottensteiner, F. (1992). Lovecraft as Philosopher. Science Fiction Studies, (1). 117.  136. ^ Woodard, Ben (2011). "Mad Speculation and Absolute Inhumanism: Lovecraft, Ligotti, and the Weirding of Philosophy". Continent. 1 (1): 6. Retrieved 15 June 2017.  137. ^ "HP Lovecraft: an appreciation". denofgeek.com.  138. ^ H.P. Lovecraft: Master of Weird Fiction. (2004). H.P. Lovecraft: Master of Weird Fiction, 8-40.  139. ^ Letter to Elizabeth Toldridge, March 8, 1929, quoted in Lovecraft: A Look Behind the Cthulhu Mythos  140. ^ a b "The long hand of Lovecraft". BBC News. March 22, 2012 – via www.bbc.co.uk.  141. ^ "Brian Keene". Brian Keene.  142. ^ a b "HP Lovecraft: love the craft, loathe the creed". irishtimes.com.  143. ^ "HP Lovecraft and his lasting impact on cinema". denofgeek.com.  144. ^ Giger, Hansruedi (2005): Necronomicon I & II. Erftstadt: Area.  145. ^ "Ask John: Is There Any Lovecraftian Anime?". AnimeNation. Archived from the original on August 13, 2002. Retrieved August 5, 2013.  146. ^ Bush, Laurence (2001). Asian Horror Encyclopedia. Writers Club Press. pp. 101–102. ISBN 978-0-595-20181-5.  147. ^ Ito, Junji (October 2007) . Uzumaki, Vol. 1 (2nd ed.). Viz Media. p. 207. ISBN 978-1-4215-1389-8.  148. ^ Mira Bai Winsby (March 2006). "Into the Spiral: A Conversation with Japanese Horror Maestro Junji Ito". 78 Magazine. Retrieved October 7, 2014.  149. ^ "TAIMASHIN: Vol. 1 Hideyuki Kikuchi, Author, Misaki Saitoh, Illustrator". Publishers Weekly. Retrieved January 21, 2015.  150. ^ H. P. Lovecraft. "H.P Lovecraft: Tales (The Library of America)". Loa.org. Retrieved March 10, 2010.  151. ^ "The Horror, the Horror!". The Weekly Standard. March 7, 2005. Retrieved March 10, 2010.  152. ^ Kenney, Michael (February 15, 2005). "The Library of America scares up a collection of Lovecraft's local lore — The Boston Globe". Boston.com. Retrieved March 10, 2010.  153. ^ Deleuze, Gilles & Guattari, Félix (translated by Brian Massumi). A Thousand Plateaus. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1993, p. 240, 539  154. ^ "The White Ship: The Psychedelic Voyage of H.P. Lovecraft". Nick Warburton's Rock Music Archive. Retrieved 2018-01-31.  155. ^ "CANOE – JAM! Music – Artists – Metallica: Interview with James Hetfield". Jam.canoe.ca. December 8, 2008. Retrieved October 3, 2011.  156. ^ "Recording of Poemata Minora". Youtube.  157. ^ "List of the winners of the NOPA music price". NOPA.  158. ^ Reich, J.E. (2016-02-20). "The Video Games, Movies And More Inspired By HP Lovecraft". Tech Times. Retrieved 2018-03-06.  159. ^ a b Gollop, Julian (2017-11-16). "The Gollop Chamber: Where are all the Lovecraftian games?". pcgamer. Retrieved 2018-03-06.  160. ^ Silva, Christianna (2017-06-07). "H.P. Lovecraft's Monster Is Wrapping Family Game Night Up In Tentacles". NPR.org. Retrieved 2018-03-06.  161. ^ "Know Your Lore, Tinfoil Hat Edition: The genesis of Azeroth". Engadget. Retrieved 2018-06-06.  162. ^ Perron, Bernard (2009-08-25). Horror Video Games: Essays on the Fusion of Fear and Play. McFarland. pp. 279–285. ISBN 9780786454792.  163. ^ Published in The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction, Volume 1 No. 2 (Winter-Spring 1950), and later to become part of Bradbury's Martian Chronicles  164. ^ Sullivan, Justin (July 22, 2014). "'Afterlife With Archie': Sabrina the Teenage Witch returns". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved June 10, 2015.  165. ^ Michaud, Jon; Michaud, Jon (2017-03-02). "Paul La Farge's 'The Night Ocean' will suck you into the vortex of H.P. Lovecraft". The Washington Post. ISSN 0190-8286. Retrieved 2017-03-05.  166. ^ The Invention of H. P. Lovecraft - by S. K. Azoulay. Flapperhouse Magazine, Fall 2016.  167. ^ Howard Lovecraft and the Frozen Kingdom, retrieved 2018-09-17  168. ^ "Lovecraft's Letters". www.hplovecraft.com.  169. ^ "The H. P. Lovecraft Library". 2003-10-03. Archived from the original on October 3, 2003. Retrieved 2016-02-17.  170. ^ "The Black Seas of Copyright: Arkham House Publishers and the H.P. Lovecraft Copyrights". www.aetherial.net. Retrieved 2016-02-17.  171. ^ "The Confusing Case Of Lovecraft's Copyrights | Techdirt". Techdirt. Retrieved 2016-02-17.  172. ^ Joshi, Schultz 2001, p. 16  173. ^ "How to Investigate the Copyright Status of a Work- U.S. Copyright Office" (PDF). copyright.gov.  174. ^ Copyright Basics by Terry Carroll 1994  175. ^ William, Johns. "Copyright". Archived from the original on October 3, 2003. Retrieved September 17, 2013.  176. ^ Karr, Chris J. "The Black Seas of Copyright: Arkham House Publishers and the H.P. Lovecraft Copyrights". Retrieved November 28, 2014.  177. ^ "How Cthulhu Works". howstuffworks.com. September 4, 2007.  178. ^ "Deities & Demigods". www.acaeum.com. Retrieved 2017-03-20.  179. ^ "Lovecraft Holdings, LLC Trademarks". Retrieved November 28, 2014.  180. ^ Sullivan, Jack (1986). The Penguin Encyclopedia of Horror and the Supernatural. New York: Viking Press. pp. 448–449. ISBN 978-0-670-80902-8.  181. ^ Morrish, Bob (1999-03-15). "Wandrei, Donald". In Grant, John; Clute, John. The Encyclopedia of Fantasy. pp. 994–5. ISBN 978-0-312-19869-5.  182. ^ a b "World Fantasy awards pressed to drop HP Lovecraft trophy in racism row". The Guardian. 17 September 2014. Retrieved 18 September 2014.  183. ^ "Editorial: Chance of Face, Change of Heart". The New York Review of Science Fiction (312). August 2014.  184. ^ Flood, Alison (9 November 2015). "World Fantasy award drops HP Lovecraft as prize image". The Guardian.  185. ^ "BBC – Sunday Feature – Weird Tales: The Strange Life of H. P. Lovecraft". BBC Radio 3. December 3, 2006.  186. ^ "The Valdemar Legacy II: The Forbidden Shadow (2010)" – via www.imdb.com.  Sources    - Dziemianowicz, Stefan (July 12, 2010), "Terror Eternal: The enduring popularity of H. P. Lovecraft", Publishers Weekly - Extract from H P Lovecraft: Against the World, Against Life by Michel Houellebecq - "H. P. Lovecraft's Afterlife" by John J. Miller of The Wall Street Journal - Michael Saler (2011). As If: Modern Enchantment and the Literary Prehistory of Virtual Reality. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-988780-4. - Sante, Luc (October 19, 2006), "The Heroic Nerd", The New York Review of Books, New York, vol. 53 no. 16, p. 37 - Joshi, S. T. (1996). A Subtler Magick: The Writings and Philosophy of H. P. Lovecraft (3rd ed.). Wildside Press LLC. ISBN 978-1-880448-61-8. - Joshi, S. T.; Schultz, David E. (2001). An H. P. Lovecraft Encyclopedia. Greenwood Publishing Group. - Joshi, S. T. (2013). I am Providence. New York: Hippocampus Press. ISBN 978-1-61498-053-7. - de Camp, L. Sprague (1975). H. P. Lovecraft: A Biography. New York: Barnes & Noble Books. ISBN 978-1-56619-994-0. - Poole, W. Scott (2016). In the Mountains of Madness. Berkeley, California: Soft Skull Press. ISBN 978-1-59376-647-4. - Roland, Paul (2014). The Curious Case of H. P. Lovecraft. London: Plexus Publishing. ISBN 978-0-85965-517-0. - Montague, Charlotte (2015). H. P. Lovecraft. New York: Chartwell Books. ISBN 978-0-7858-3269-0. Further reading    - Anderson, James Arthur. Out of the Shadows: A Structuralist Approach to Understanding the Fiction of H. P. Lovecraft (ISBN 978-0-8095-3002-1) A close reading of Lovecraft's fiction. The Milford Series, Popular Writers of Today, Vol. 75; Wildside Press, 2011. - Burleson, Donald R. Lovecraft: Disturbing the Universe (ISBN 0-8131-1728-3) This book is the only volume to date analyzing Lovecraft's literature from a deconstructionist standpoint. University Press of Kentucky, November 1990. - Carter, Lin. Lovecraft: A Look Behind the Cthulhu Mythos (ISBN 0-586-04166-4), is a survey of Lovecraft's work (along with that of other members of the Lovecraft Circle) with considerable information on his life. - De Camp, L. Sprague Lovecraft: A Biography (ISBN 0-345-25115-6) The first full-length biography, published in 1975, now out of print. It reflected the state of scholarship at the time but is now completely superseded by S.T. Joshi's biography I Am Providence. - Eddy, Muriel and C. M. Eddy Jr. The Gentleman From Angell Street: Memories of H. P. Lovecraft (ISBN 978-0-9701699-1-4), is a collection of personal remembrances and anecdotes from two of Lovecraft's closest friends in Providence. The Eddys were fellow writers, and Mr. Eddy was a frequent contributor to Weird Tales. - Hill, Gary. The Strange Sound of Cthulhu: Music Inspired by the Writings of H. P. Lovecraft (ISBN 978-1-84728-776-2). - Joshi, S. T. H. P. Lovecraft: A Life (ISBN 0-940884-88-7) The most complete and authoritative biography of Lovecraft, later abridged as A Dreamer & a Visionary: H. P. Lovecraft in His Time (ISBN 0-85323-946-0). An unabridged reprint in two volumes of Joshi's biography, newly retitled I Am Providence, was published in 2010 by Hippocampus Press. - Joshi S. T. The Rise and Fall of the Cthulhu Mythos (Mythos Books, 2008) is the first full-length critical study since Lin Carter's to examine the development of Lovecraft's Mythos and its outworking in the oeuvres of various modern writers. - Joshi, S. T. "H. P. Lovecraft: Alone in Space," chapter 3 in Emperors of Dreams: Some Notes on Weird Poetry by S. T. Joshi (Sydney: P'rea Press, 2008: ISBN 978-0-9804625-3-1 (pbk) and ISBN 978-0-9804625-4-8 (hbk)), discusses some of Lovecraft's weird poetry. - Long, Frank Belknap Howard Phillips Lovecraft: Dreamer on the Nightside (Arkham House, 1975, ISBN 0-87054-068-8) Presents a personal look at Lovecraft's life, combining reminiscence, biography and literary criticism. Long was a friend and correspondent of Lovecraft, as well as a fellow fantasist who wrote a number of Lovecraft-influenced Cthulhu Mythos stories (including The Hounds of Tindalos). - An English translation of Michel Houellebecq's H. P. Lovecraft: Against the World, Against Life (ISBN 1-932416-18-8) was published by Believer Books in 2005. - Ludueña, Fabián, H.P. Lovecraft. The Disjunction in Being (translation and epilogue by Alejandro de Acosta), New York, Schism, 2015 (ISBN 978-1-5058-6600-1). A study of Lovecraft's conceptions about philosophy and literature. - Other significant Lovecraft-related works are An H. P. Lovecraft Encyclopedia by Joshi and David S. Schulz; Lovecraft's Library: A Catalogue (a meticulous listing of many of the books in Lovecraft's now scattered library), by Joshi; Lovecraft at Last, an account by Willis Conover of his teenage correspondence with Lovecraft; Joshi's A Subtler Magick: The Writings and Philosophy of H. P. Lovecraft. - Lovecraft's prose fiction being published as corrected texts were released by Arkham House in the 1980s, and many other collections of his stories have appeared, including Ballantine Books editions and three Del Rey editions. The three collections published by Penguin, The Call of Cthulhu and Other Weird Stories, The Thing on the Doorstep and Other Weird Stories, and The Dreams in the Witch House and Other Weird Stories, incorporate the modifications made in the corrected texts as well as the annotations provided by Joshi. - Lovecraft's ghost-written works are compiled in The Horror in the Museum and Other Revisions, edited again by Joshi. - Some of Lovecraft's writings are annotated with footnotes or endnotes. In addition to the Penguin editions mentioned above and The Annotated Supernatural Horror in Literature, Joshi has produced The Annotated H. P. Lovecraft as well as More Annotated H. P. Lovecraft, both of which are footnoted extensively. - An Epicure in the Terrible (Fairleigh Dickinson University Press, 1991), edited by David E. Schultz and S. T. Joshi is an anthology of 13 essays on Lovecraft (excluding Joshi's lengthy introduction) on the centennial of Lovecraft's birth. The essays are arranged into 3 sections; Biographical, Thematic Studies and Comparative and Genre Studies. The authors include S. T. Joshi, Kenneth W. Faig, Jr, Jason C. Eckhardt, Will Murray, Donald R. Burleson, Peter Cannon, Stefan Dziemianowicz, Steven J. Mariconda, David E. Schultz, Robert H. Waugh, Robert M. Price, R. Boerem, Norman R. Gatford and Barton Levi St. Armand. - The Intersection of Fantasy and Native America: From H. P. Lovecraft to Leslie Marmon Silko edited by Amy H. Sturgis and David D. Oberhelman (Mythopoeic Press, 2009: ISBN 978-1-887726-12-2). - Locke, John. The Thing's Incredible: The Secret Origins of Weird Tales (Off-Trail Publications, 2018, ISBN 1-935031-25-2). A history of the first two years of Weird Tales (1923–24), the book contains extensive information on Lovecraft's introduction to and growing association with the magazine under the Henneberger/Baird regime. Issues covered include the acceptance of his early submissions, his role in the 1924 reorganization, and his recruitment as editor.  External links  H. P. Lovecraftat Wikipedia's sister projects    - Media from Wikimedia Commons  - Quotations from Wikiquote  - Texts from Wikisource  - Data from Wikidata     - Howard P. Lovecraft Collection in the Special Collections at the John Hay Library (Brown University) - The H. P. Lovecraft Historical Society - H. P. Lovecraft Discography at Discogs.com - Works by H. P. Lovecraft at Project Gutenberg - Works by or about H. P. Lovecraft at Internet Archive - Works by H. P. Lovecraft at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks)  - H. P. Lovecraft at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database - H. P. Lovecraft on IMDb  - H. P. Lovecraft at Library of Congress Authorities, with 113 catalog records    - H. P. Lovecraft portal See also: Cthulhu Mythos in popular culture
Thomas à Kempis, CRSA (c. 1380 – 25 July 1471) was a German-Dutch canon regular of the late medieval period and the author of The Imitation of Christ, one of the most popular and best known Christian books on devotion. His name means Thomas "of Kempen", his hometown, and in German he is known as Thomas von Kempen (in Dutch, Thomas van Kempen).   He was a member of the Modern Devotion, a spiritual movement during the late medieval period, and a follower of Geert Groote and Florens Radewyns, the founders of the Brethren of the Common Life.
Thomas Carlyle (4 December 1795 – 5 February 1881) was a Scottish philosopher, satirical writer, essayist, translator, historian, mathematician, and teacher. Considered one of the most important social commentators of his time, he presented many lectures during his lifetime with certain acclaim in the Victorian era. One of those conferences resulted in his famous work On Heroes, Hero-Worship, and The Heroic in History where he explains that the key role in history lies in the actions of the "Great Man", claiming that "the history of the world is but the biography of great men".   A respected historian, his 1837 book The French Revolution: A History was the inspiration for Charles Dickens' 1859 novel A Tale of Two Cities, and remains popular today. Carlyle's 1836 Sartor Resartus is a notable philosophical novel.   A great polemicist, Carlyle coined the term "the dismal science" for economics, in his essay "Occasional Discourse on the Negro Question"'. He also wrote articles for the Edinburgh Encyclopædia, and his "Occasional Discourse on the Negro Question" (1849) remains controversial. Once a Christian, Carlyle lost his faith while attending the University of Edinburgh, later adopting a form of deism.   In mathematics, he is known for the Carlyle circle, a method used in quadratic equations and for developing ruler-and-compass constructions of regular polygons.
Thomas Fuller (baptized 19 June 1608 – 16 August 1661) was an English churchman and historian. He is now remembered for his writings, particularly his Worthies of England, published in 1662 after his death. He was a prolific author, and one of the first English writers able to live by his pen (and his many patrons).
Thomas Hardy OM (2 June 1840 – 11 January 1928) was an English novelist and poet. A Victorian realist in the tradition of George Eliot, he was influenced both in his novels and in his poetry by Romanticism, especially William Wordsworth. He was highly critical of much in Victorian society, especially on the declining status of rural people in Britain, such as those from his native South West England.   While Hardy wrote poetry throughout his life and regarded himself primarily as a poet, his first collection was not published until 1898. Initially, therefore, he gained fame as the author of such novels as Far from the Madding Crowd (1874), The Mayor of Casterbridge (1886), Tess of the d'Urbervilles (1891), and Jude the Obscure (1895). During his lifetime, Hardy's poetry was acclaimed by younger poets (particularly the Georgians) who viewed him as a mentor. After his death his poems were lauded by Ezra Pound, W. H. Auden and Philip Larkin.   Many of his novels concern tragic characters struggling against their passions and social circumstances, and they are often set in the semi-fictional region of Wessex; initially based on the medieval Anglo-Saxon kingdom, Hardy's Wessex eventually came to include the counties of Dorset, Wiltshire, Somerset, Devon, Hampshire and much of Berkshire, in southwest and south central England. Two of his novels, Tess of the d'Urbervilles and Far from the Madding Crowd, were listed in the top 50 on the BBC's survey The Big Read.
Thomas Henry Huxley PC PRS FLS FRS (4 May 1825 – 29 June 1895) was an English biologist specialising in comparative anatomy. He is known as "Darwin's Bulldog" for his advocacy of Charles Darwin's theory of evolution.   The stories regarding Huxley's famous debate in 1860 with Samuel Wilberforce were a key moment in the wider acceptance of evolution and in his own career, although historians think that the surviving story of the debate is a later fabrication. Huxley had been planning to leave Oxford on the previous day, but, after an encounter with Robert Chambers, the author of Vestiges, he changed his mind and decided to join the debate. Wilberforce was coached by Richard Owen, against whom Huxley also debated about whether humans were closely related to apes.   Huxley was slow to accept some of Darwin's ideas, such as gradualism, and was undecided about natural selection, but despite this he was wholehearted in his public support of Darwin. Instrumental in developing scientific education in Britain, he fought against the more extreme versions of religious tradition.    Originally coining the term in 1869, Huxley elaborated on "agnosticism" in 1889 to frame the nature of claims in terms of what is knowable and what is not. Huxley states  Agnosticism, in fact, is not a creed, but a method, the essence of which lies in the rigorous application of a single principle... the fundamental axiom of modern science... In matters of the intellect, follow your reason as far as it will take you, without regard to any other consideration... In matters of the intellect, do not pretend that conclusions are certain which are not demonstrated or demonstrable.   Use of that term has continued to the present day (see Thomas Henry Huxley and agnosticism). Much of Huxley's agnosticism is influenced by Kantian views on human perception and the ability to rely on rational evidence rather than belief systems.   Huxley had little formal schooling and was virtually self-taught. He became perhaps the finest comparative anatomist of the later 19th century. He worked on invertebrates, clarifying relationships between groups previously little understood. Later, he worked on vertebrates, especially on the relationship between apes and humans. After comparing Archaeopteryx with Compsognathus, he concluded that birds evolved from small carnivorous dinosaurs, a theory widely accepted today.   The tendency has been for this fine anatomical work to be overshadowed by his energetic and controversial activity in favour of evolution, and by his extensive public work on scientific education, both of which had significant effects on society in Britain and elsewhere.
Thomas Hobbes (/hɒbz/; 5 April 1588 – 4 December 1679), in some older texts Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury, was an English philosopher, considered to be one of the founders of modern political philosophy. Hobbes is best known for his 1651 book Leviathan, which expounded an influential formulation of social contract theory. In addition to political philosophy, Hobbes also contributed to a diverse array of other fields, including history, jurisprudence, geometry, the physics of gases, theology, ethics, and general philosophy.
Thomas Jefferson (April 13, [O.S. April 2] 1743 – July 4, 1826) was an American Founding Father, the principal author of the Declaration of Independence, and the third president of the United States from 1801 to 1809. Previously, he had been elected the second vice president of the United States, serving under John Adams from 1797 to 1801. Jefferson was a proponent of democracy, republicanism, and individual rights motivating American colonists to break from the Kingdom of Great Britain and form a new nation; he produced formative documents and decisions at both the state and national level.   Jefferson was mainly of English ancestry, born and educated in colonial Virginia. He graduated from the College of William & Mary and briefly practiced law, with the largest number of his cases concerning land ownership claims. During the American Revolution, he represented Virginia in the Continental Congress that adopted the Declaration, drafted the law for religious freedom as a Virginia legislator, and served as a wartime governor (1779–1781). He became the United States Minister to France in May 1785, and subsequently the nation's first secretary of state in 1790–1793 under President George Washington. Jefferson and James Madison organized the Democratic-Republican Party to oppose the Federalist Party during the formation of the First Party System. With Madison, he anonymously wrote the controversial Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions in 1798–1799, which sought to strengthen states' rights by nullifying the federal Alien and Sedition Acts.   As President, Jefferson pursued the nation's shipping and trade interests against Barbary pirates and aggressive British trade policies. He also organized the Louisiana Purchase, almost doubling the country's territory. As a result of peace negotiations with France, his administration reduced military forces. He was reelected in 1804. Jefferson's second term was beset with difficulties at home, including the trial of former Vice President Aaron Burr. American foreign trade was diminished when Jefferson implemented the Embargo Act of 1807, responding to British threats to U.S. shipping. In 1803, Jefferson began a controversial process of Indian tribe removal to the newly organized Louisiana Territory, and he signed the Act Prohibiting Importation of Slaves in 1807.   Jefferson, while primarily a planter, lawyer and politician, mastered many disciplines, which ranged from surveying and mathematics to horticulture and mechanics. He was an architect in the classical tradition. Jefferson's keen interest in religion and philosophy led to his presidency of the American Philosophical Society; he shunned organized religion but was influenced by both Christianity and deism. A philologist, Jefferson knew several languages. He was a prolific letter writer and corresponded with many prominent people. His only full-length book is Notes on the State of Virginia (1785), considered perhaps the most important American book published before 1800. After retiring from public office, Jefferson founded the University of Virginia.   Although regarded as a leading spokesman for democracy and republicanism in the era of the Enlightenment, Jefferson's historical legacy is mixed. Some modern scholarship has been critical of Jefferson's private life, pointing out the contradiction between his ownership of the large numbers of slaves that worked his plantations and his famous declaration that "all men are created equal." Another point of controversy stems from the evidence that after his wife Martha died in 1782, Jefferson fathered children with Martha's half-sister, Sally Hemings, who was his slave. Despite this, presidential scholars and historians generally praise his public achievements, including his advocacy of religious freedom and tolerance in Virginia. Jefferson continues to rank highly among U.S. presidents.
Thomas Ligotti (born July 9, 1953) is a contemporary American horror author and reclusive literary cult figure. His writings have been noted as being rooted in several literary genres – most prominently weird fiction – and have overall been described by critics such as S.T. Joshi as works of "philosophical horror", often written as short stories and novellas and with similarities to gothic fiction. The worldview espoused by Ligotti in both his fiction and non-fiction has been described as profoundly pessimistic and nihilistic. The Washington Post called him "the best kept secret in contemporary horror fiction."
Thomas Merton OCSO (January 31, 1915 – December 10, 1968) was an American Trappist monk, writer, theologian, mystic, poet, social activist, and scholar of comparative religion. On May 26, 1949, he was ordained to the priesthood and given the name Father Louis.   Merton wrote more than 70 books, mostly on spirituality, social justice and a quiet pacifism, as well as scores of essays and reviews. Among Merton's most enduring works is his bestselling autobiography The Seven Storey Mountain (1948), which sent scores of World War II veterans, students, and even teenagers flocking to monasteries across the US, and was also featured in National Review's list of the 100 best non-fiction books of the century. Merton was a keen proponent of interfaith understanding. He pioneered dialogue with prominent Asian spiritual figures, including the Dalai Lama, the Japanese writer D. T. Suzuki, the Thai Buddhist monk Buddhadasa, and the Vietnamese monk Thich Nhat Hanh, and authored books on Zen Buddhism and Taoism. In the years since his death, Merton has been the subject of several biographies.
Thomas Moore (28 May 1779 – 25 February 1852) was an Irish poet, singer, songwriter, and entertainer, now best remembered for the lyrics of "The Minstrel Boy" and "The Last Rose of Summer". As Lord Byron's named literary executor, along with John Murray, Moore was responsible for burning Lord Byron's memoirs after his death. In his lifetime he was often referred to as Anacreon Moore.   From a relatively early age Moore showed an interest in music and other performing arts. He sometimes appeared in musical plays with his friends, such as The Poor Soldier by John O'Keeffe (music by William Shield), and at one point had ambitions to become an actor. Moore attended several Dublin schools including Samuel Whyte's English Grammar School in Grafton Street where he learned the English accent with which he spoke for the rest of his life. In 1795 he graduated from Trinity College, which had recently allowed entry to Catholic students, in an effort to fulfill his mother's dream of his becoming a lawyer. Moore was initially a good student, but he later put less effort into his studies. His time at Trinity came amidst the ongoing turmoil following the French Revolution, and a number of his fellow students such as Robert Emmet were supporters of the United Irishmen movement, although Moore himself never was a member. This movement sought support from the French government to launch a revolution in Ireland. In 1798 a rebellion broke out followed by a French invasion, neither of which succeeded.   Besides Emmet, another formative influence was Edward Hudson, also a fellow student at Trinity College, who played a crucial role in introducing Moore to Edward Bunting's A General Collection of the Ancient Irish Music (1797), later one of the main sources of his own collection of Irish Melodies.
Thomas Paine (born Thomas Pain) (February 9, 1737 [O.S. January 29, 1736][Note 1] – June 8, 1809) was an English-born American political activist, philosopher, political theorist and revolutionary. One of the Founding Fathers of the United States, he authored the two most influential pamphlets at the start of the American Revolution and inspired the patriots in 1776 to declare independence from Britain.   His ideas reflected Enlightenment-era ideals of transnational human rights. Saul K. Padover described him as "a corsetmaker by trade, a journalist by profession, and a propagandist by inclination".   Born in Thetford in the English county of Norfolk, Paine migrated to the British American colonies in 1774 with the help of Benjamin Franklin, arriving just in time to participate in the American Revolution. Virtually every rebel read (or listened to a reading of) his powerful pamphlet Common Sense (1776), proportionally the all-time best-selling American title, which crystallized the rebellious demand for independence from Great Britain. His The American Crisis (1776–1783) was a pro-revolutionary pamphlet series. Common Sense was so influential that John Adams said: "Without the pen of the author of Common Sense, the sword of Washington would have been raised in vain".   Paine lived in France for most of the 1790s, becoming deeply involved in the French Revolution. He wrote Rights of Man (1791), in part a defense of the French Revolution against its critics. His attacks on Irish conservative writer Edmund Burke led to a trial and conviction in absentia in England in 1792 for the crime of seditious libel.   The British government of William Pitt the Younger, worried by the possibility that the French Revolution might spread to England, had begun suppressing works that espoused radical philosophies. Paine's work, which advocated the right of the people to overthrow their government, was duly targeted, with a writ for his arrest issued in early 1792. Paine fled to France in September where, rather immediately and despite not being able to speak French, he was elected to the French National Convention. The Girondists regarded him as an ally. Consequently, the Montagnards, especially Maximilien Robespierre, regarded him as an enemy.   In December 1793, he was arrested and was taken to Luxembourg Prison in Paris. While in prison, he continued to work on The Age of Reason (1793–1794). Future President James Monroe used his diplomatic connections to get Paine released in November 1794. He became notorious because of his pamphlets. The Age of Reason, in which he advocated deism, promoted reason and free thought and argued against institutionalized religion in general and Christian doctrine in particular. He published the pamphlet Agrarian Justice (1797), discussing the origins of property and introduced the concept of a guaranteed minimum income. In 1802, he returned to the U.S. where he died on June 8, 1809. Only six people attended his funeral as he had been ostracized for his ridicule of Christianity.
Thomas Sowell (/soʊl/; born June 30, 1930) is an American economist and social theorist who is currently a Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University.   Sowell was born in North Carolina, but grew up in Harlem, New York. He dropped out of high school and served in the United States Marine Corps during the Korean War. He received a bachelor's degree, graduating magna cum laude from Harvard University in 1958 and a master's degree from Columbia University in 1959. In 1968, he earned his doctorate in economics from the University of Chicago.   Sowell has served on the faculties of several universities, including Cornell University and University of California, Los Angeles. He has also worked for think tanks such as the Urban Institute. Since 1980, he has worked at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University. He writes from a libertarian conservative perspective, advocating supply-side economics. Sowell has written more than thirty books (a number of which have been reprinted in revised editions), and his work has been widely anthologized. He is a National Humanities Medal recipient for innovative scholarship which incorporated history, economics and political science.
Thomas Woodrow Wilson (December 28, 1856 – February 3, 1924) was an American statesman and academic who served as the 28th president of the United States from 1913 to 1921. A member of the Democratic Party, Wilson served as the president of Princeton University from 1902 to 1910, and as governor of New Jersey from 1911 to 1913, before winning the 1912 presidential election. As president, he oversaw the passage of progressive legislative policies unparalleled until the New Deal in 1933. He also led the United States during World War I, establishing an activist foreign policy known as "Wilsonianism." He was one of the three key leaders at the 1919 Paris Peace Conference, where he championed a new League of Nations, but he was unable to win Senate approval for U.S. participation in the League.   Born in Staunton, Virginia, to a slaveholding family, Wilson spent his early years in Augusta, Georgia, and Columbia, South Carolina. His father was a leading Southern Presbyterian and helped to found the Presbyterian Church in the Confederate States of America. After earning a Ph.D. in political science from Johns Hopkins University, Wilson taught at various schools before taking a position at Princeton. In 1910, Democratic leaders recruited him to run for Governor of New Jersey. Serving from 1911 to 1913, Wilson broke with party bosses and won the passage of several progressive reforms. Wilson's success in New Jersey gave him a national reputation as a progressive reformer, and his Southern roots helped him win favor in that region. After several ballots, the 1912 Democratic National Convention selected Wilson as the party's presidential nominee. Theodore Roosevelt's third-party candidacy split the Republican Party, which re-nominated incumbent President William Howard Taft. Wilson won the 1912 election with a plurality of the popular vote and a large majority in the Electoral College.   Upon taking office, Wilson called a special session of Congress, whose work culminated in the Revenue Act of 1913, introducing a federal income tax which provided revenue lost when tariffs were sharply lowered. He also presided over the passage of the Federal Reserve Act, which created a central banking system in the form of the Federal Reserve System. Other major elements of Wilson's New Freedom agenda included the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Clayton Antitrust Act, and the Adamson Act, all of which established new economic regulations enforced by the federal government. Wilson staffed his cabinet and administration with numerous Southern Democrats; they insisted on racial segregation at the Treasury Department and other federal offices. Upon the outbreak of World War I in 1914, Wilson maintained a policy of neutrality between the Allied Powers and the Central Powers. In the presidential election of 1916, Wilson defeated Republican Charles Evans Hughes by a narrow margin, and Democrats retained control of Congress. His policy in dealing with the Mexican Revolution involved military actions, but stopped short of war.   Early in 1918, Wilson issued his principles for an end to the war, the Fourteen Points. Following the signing of an armistice in November 1918, he traveled to Paris, concluding the Treaty of Versailles. Wilson embarked on a nationwide tour of the United States to campaign for ratification of the treaty and U.S. entrance into the League of Nations, but he suffered a severe stroke in October 1919. In his final year in office, Wilson secluded himself in the White House, disability having diminished his power and influence. The Treaty of Versailles was rejected by the Senate, and the U.S. remained outside of the League of Nations. Wilson retired from public office in 1921, and died in 1924. Scholars and historians generally rank Wilson as one of the best U.S. presidents.
Tim Fargo is an American author, keynote speaker, angel investor and entrepreneur. He is the author of Alphabet Success and Claimants and Lies and Videotape - A Claim's Handler's Guide to Surveillance. Fargo is best known for co-founding insurance fraud investigative company, Omega Insurance Service in 1996, that became the second biggest insurance fraud investigative company in the United States, acquired by First Advantage in 2003 for $20 million. He currently serves as the President of Hammerfest Corp and writes for The Los Angeles Times, St. Petersburg Times, Business Insurance, Claims Journal and Claims magazine on the insurance sector.
Tina FeyFey in March 2014BornElizabeth Stamatina Fey  (1970-05-18) May 18, 1970 (age 48) Upper Darby, Pennsylvania, U.S.Alma materUniversity of Virginia (BA)Occupation  - Actress - comedian - writer - producer - playwrightYears active1997–presentSpouse(s)Jeff Richmond (m. 2001)Children2Comedy careerMedium  - Television - film - theatre - booksGenres  - Improvisational comedy - sketch comedy - satireSubject(s)  - American politics - American culture - current events - human interaction - social awkwardness - self-deprecation - pop culture   Elizabeth Stamatina "Tina" Fey (/feɪ/; born May 18, 1970) is an American actress, comedian, writer, producer, and playwright. She is best known for her work on the NBC sketch comedy series Saturday Night Live (1997–2006) and for creating the acclaimed comedy series 30 Rock (2006–2013) and Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt (2015–present). Fey is also known for her work in film, with starring roles in Baby Mama (2008), Date Night (2010), Megamind (2010), Muppets Most Wanted (2014), Sisters (2015), and Whiskey Tango Foxtrot (2016).   Fey broke into comedy as a featured player in the Chicago-based improvisational comedy group The Second City. She then joined SNL as a writer, later becoming head writer and a performer, known for her position as co-anchor in the Weekend Update segment and, later, for her satirical portrayal of 2008 Republican vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin in subsequent guest appearances. In 2004, she co-starred in and wrote the screenplay for Mean Girls, which was adapted from the 2002 self-help book Queen Bees and Wannabes. After leaving SNL in 2006, Fey created the television series 30 Rock for Broadway Video, a sitcom loosely based on her experiences at SNL. In the series, Fey starred as Liz Lemon, the head writer of a fictional sketch comedy series. In 2011, she released her memoir, Bossypants, which topped The New York Times Best Seller list for five weeks and garnered her a Grammy Award nomination. In 2015, she co-created the Netflix comedy series Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt. Fey created the musical adaptation Mean Girls, which premiered on Broadway in 2018, and earned her a Tony Award nomination.   Fey has received nine Primetime Emmy Awards, three Golden Globe Awards, five Screen Actors Guild Awards, and seven Writers Guild of America Awards. In 2008, the Associated Press gave Fey the AP Entertainer of the Year award for her Sarah Palin impression on SNL. In 2010, Fey was awarded the Mark Twain Prize for American Humor, becoming the youngest-ever recipient of the award.
Tite Kubo (久保 帯人, Kubo Taito, born June 26, 1977) is a Japanese manga artist. He is best known for his manga series Bleach, which has sold over 120 million copies as of 2018.
Titus Lucretius Carus (/ˈtaɪtəs ljuːˈkriːʃəs/; c. 15 October 99 BC – c. 55 BC) was a Roman poet and philosopher. His only known work is the philosophical poem De rerum natura, a didactic work about the tenets and philosophy of Epicureanism, and which is usually translated into English as On the Nature of Things. Lucretius has been credited with originating the concept of the three-age system which was formalised from 1834 by C. J. Thomsen.   Very little is known about Lucretius's life; the only certain fact is that he was either a friend or client of Gaius Memmius, to whom the poem was addressed and dedicated.   De rerum natura was a considerable influence on the Augustan poets, particularly Virgil (in his Aeneid and Georgics, and to a lesser extent on the Eclogues) and Horace. The work virtually disappeared during the Middle Ages, but was rediscovered in 1417 in a monastery in Germany by Poggio Bracciolini and it played an important role both in the development of atomism (Lucretius was an important influence on Pierre Gassendi) and the efforts of various figures of the Enlightenment era to construct a new Christian humanism.
Titus Maccius Plautus (/ˈplɔːtəs/; c. 254 – 184 BC), commonly known as Plautus, was a Roman playwright of the Old Latin period. His comedies are the earliest Latin literary works to have survived in their entirety. He wrote Palliata comoedia, the genre devised by the innovator of Latin literature, Livius Andronicus. The word Plautine /ˈplɔːtaɪn/ refers to both Plautus's own works and works similar to or influenced by his.
Tomi Adeyemi (born August 1, 1993) is a Nigerian-American novelist and creative writing coach. She is known for her book Children of Blood and Bone, the first in the Legacy of Orïsha trilogy published by Henry Holt Books for Young Readers.
Toni Morrison (born Chloe Ardelia Wofford, February 18, 1931) is an American novelist, essayist, editor, teacher and professor emeritus at Princeton University.   Morrison won the Pulitzer Prize and the American Book Award in 1988 for Beloved. The novel was adapted into a film of the same name (starring Oprah Winfrey and Danny Glover) in 1998. Morrison was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1993. In 1996, the National Endowment for the Humanities selected her for the Jefferson Lecture, the U.S. federal government's highest honor for achievement in the humanities. She was honored with the 1996 National Book Foundation's Medal of Distinguished Contribution to American Letters. Morrison wrote the libretto for a new opera, Margaret Garner, first performed in 2005. On May 29, 2012, President Barack Obama presented Morrison with the Presidential Medal of Freedom. In 2016, she received the PEN/Saul Bellow Award for Achievement in American Fiction.
Tove Marika Jansson (Finland Swedish pronunciation: [ˈtuːvɛ ˈjɑːnsɔn] () was a Swedish-speaking Finnish author, novelist, painter, illustrator and comic strip author. Brought up by artistic parents, Jansson studied art from 1930 to 1938 in Stockholm, Helsinki and Paris. Her first solo art exhibition was in 1943. At the same time, she was writing short stories and articles for publication, as well as creating the graphics for book covers and other purposes. She continued to work as an artist and a writer for the rest of her life.   Jansson wrote the Moomin books for children, starting in 1945 with The Moomins and the Great Flood. The next two books, Comet in Moominland and Finn Family Moomintroll, published in 1946 and 1948 respectively, were highly successful in sales, adding to sales of the first book. For her work as a children's writer she received the Hans Christian Andersen Medal in 1966.   Starting with the semi-autobiographical Bildhuggarens dotter (Sculptor's Daughter) in 1968, Jansson wrote six novels, including the admired Sommarboken (The Summer Book), and five books of short stories for adults.
Truman CapoteCapote in 1980BornTruman Streckfus Persons (1924-09-30)September 30, 1924 New Orleans, Louisiana, U.S.DiedAugust 25, 1984(1984-08-25) (aged 59) Bel Air, Los Angeles, California, U.S.Resting placeWestwood Memorial Park, Los Angeles, California, U.S.Other namesTruman Garcia CapoteOccupationArtist, author, actorPartner(s)Jack DunphyWriting careerEducationTimothy Dwight SchoolPeriod1943–1964Literary movementSouthern GothicNotable worksIn Cold Blood, Breakfast at Tiffany'sSignature   Truman Garcia Capote (/kəˈpoʊti/; born Truman Streckfus Persons, September 30, 1924 – August 25, 1984) was an American novelist, short story writer, screenwriter, playwright, and actor. Several of his short stories, novels, and plays have been praised as literary classics, including the novella Breakfast at Tiffany's (1958) and the true crime novel In Cold Blood (1966), which he labeled a "nonfiction novel". At least 20 films and television dramas have been produced from his work.   Capote rose above a childhood troubled by divorce, a long absence from his mother, and multiple migrations. He had discovered his calling as a writer by the age of 8, and for the rest of his childhood he honed his writing ability. Capote began his professional career writing short stories. The critical success of one story, "Miriam" (1945), attracted the attention of Random House publisher Bennett Cerf, and resulted in a contract to write the novel Other Voices, Other Rooms (1948). Capote earned the most fame with In Cold Blood, a journalistic work about the murder of a Kansas farm family in their home. Capote spent four years writing the book aided by his lifelong friend Harper Lee, who wrote To Kill a Mockingbird (1960).   A milestone in popular culture, In Cold Blood was the peak of Capote's literary career.[citation needed] In the 1970s, he maintained his celebrity status by appearing on television talk shows.
Umberto Eco OMRI (/ˈɛkoʊ/; Italian: [umˈbɛrto ˈɛːko]; 5 January 1932 – 19 February 2016) was an Italian novelist, literary critic, philosopher, semiotician, and university professor. He is widely known for his 1980 novel Il nome della rosa (The Name of the Rose), a historical mystery combining semiotics in fiction with biblical analysis, medieval studies, and literary theory. He later wrote other novels, including Il pendolo di Foucault (Foucault's Pendulum) and L'isola del giorno prima (The Island of the Day Before). His novel Il cimitero di Praga (The Prague Cemetery), released in 2010, topped the bestseller charts in Italy.   Eco also wrote academic texts, children's books, and essays. He was the founder of the Department of Media Studies at the University of the Republic of San Marino, president of the Graduate School for the Study of the Humanities at the University of Bologna, member of the Accademia dei Lincei, and an honorary fellow of Kellogg College, Oxford.   Eco was honored with the Kenyon Review Award for Literary Achievement in 2005 along with Roger Angell.
Uzodinma Iweala (born November 5, 1982) is an American author and medical doctor of Nigerian descent. His debut novel, Beasts of No Nation, is a formation of his thesis work (in creative writing) at Harvard. It depicts a child soldier in an unnamed African country. The book, published in 2005 and adapted as an award-winning film in 2015, was mentioned by Time Magazine, The New York Times, Entertainment Weekly, The Times, and Rolling Stone.
Valentin Louis Georges Eugène Marcel Proust (/pruːst/; French: [maʁsɛl pʁust]; 10 July 1871 – 18 November 1922), known as Marcel Proust, was a French novelist, critic, and essayist best known for his monumental novel À la recherche du temps perdu (In Search of Lost Time; earlier rendered as Remembrance of Things Past), published in seven parts between 1913 and 1927. He is considered by critics and writers to be one of the most influential authors of the 20th century.
Vera Nazarian (born 1966 in Moscow, Russia) is an Armenian-Russian (by ethnicity) American writer of fantasy, science fiction and other "wonder fiction" including Mythpunk, an artist, and the publisher of Norilana Books. She is a member of the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America (SFWA) and the author of ten novels, including Dreams of the Compass Rose, a "collage" novel structured as a series of related and interlinked stories similar in arabesque flavor to The One Thousand and One Nights, Lords of Rainbow, a standalone epic fantasy about a world without color, the Cobweb Bride trilogy, and the  Atlantis Grail books.
Veronica Rossi (born 16 June 1973) is a Brazilian-American novelist known for her debut New York Times-bestselling book trilogy Under the Never Sky. Film rights to the trilogy have been optioned by Warner Brothers Studios, with the novel being sold in more than 25 international markets.
Victoria Aveyard is an American writer of young adult and fantasy fiction and screenplays. She is known for her fantasy novel Red Queen,. Aveyard wrote the novel a year after graduating from University of Southern California's screenwriting program in 2012. Sony Pictures teamed up with her to write spec screenplay Eternal.
Victoria Elizabeth (V. E.) Schwab (born July 7, 1987) is an American fantasy author best known for her 2013 novel Vicious, the Shades of Magic series, and for her children's and young adult fiction published under the name Victoria Schwab.
Victoria Moran is an American author and speaker. She has written a number of books specializing in both spirituality and veganism. Moran hosts the "Main Street Vegan" radio show and podcast on Unity Online Radio.   She started her career as a freelance magazine writer and has gone on to publish a number of best-selling vegan books, starting in 1985 with Compassion the Ultimate Ethic, which was based on her undergraduate college thesis. Her 2012 book, Main Street Vegan, is the basis of her company and outreach, including the Main Street Vegan podcast, Main Street Vegan Academy, and Main Street Vegan Productions. Her work in the field of veganism led her to win the Vegan of The Year award in 2012; her podcast won a Vegan Media Outlet Award in 2015.   Her most recent book was published in 2015 and is titled The Good Karma Diet.
Victor Marie Hugo (French: [viktɔʁ maʁi yɡo] (; 26 February 1802 – 22 May 1885) was a French poet, novelist, and dramatist of the Romantic movement. Hugo is considered to be one of the greatest and best-known French writers. Outside France, his most famous works are the novels Les Misérables, 1862, and The Hunchback of Notre-Dame (French: Notre-Dame de Paris), 1831. In France, Hugo is known primarily for his poetry collections, such as Les Contemplations (The Contemplations) and La Légende des siècles (The Legend of the Ages).   Hugo was at the forefront of the Romantic literary movement with his play Cromwell and drama Hernani. Many of his works have inspired music, both during his lifetime and after his death, including the musicals Notre-Dame de Paris and Les Misérables. He produced more than 4,000 drawings in his lifetime, and campaigned for social causes such as the abolition of capital punishment.   Though a committed royalist when he was young, Hugo's views changed as the decades passed, and he became a passionate supporter of republicanism; his work touches upon most of the political and social issues and the artistic trends of his time. He is buried in the Panthéon in Paris. His legacy has been honoured in many ways, including his portrait being placed on French currency.
Vincent Willem van Gogh (Dutch: [ˈvɪnsɛnt ˈʋɪləm vɑŋ ˈɣɔx] (; 30 March 1853 – 29 July 1890) was a Dutch Post-Impressionist painter who is among the most famous and influential figures in the history of Western art. In just over a decade he created about 2,100 artworks, including around 860 oil paintings, most of them in the last two years of his life. They include landscapes, still lifes, portraits and self-portraits, and are characterised by bold colours and dramatic, impulsive and expressive brushwork that contributed to the foundations of modern art. However, he was not commercially successful and his suicide at 37 followed years of mental illness and poverty.   Born into an upper-middle-class family, Van Gogh drew as a child and was serious, quiet and thoughtful. As a young man he worked as an art dealer, often travelling, but became depressed after he was transferred to London. He turned to religion and spent time as a Protestant missionary in southern Belgium. He drifted in ill health and solitude before taking up painting in 1881, having moved back home with his parents. His younger brother Theo supported him financially, and the two kept up a long correspondence by letter. His early works, mostly still lifes and depictions of peasant labourers, contain few signs of the vivid colour that distinguished his later work. In 1886, he moved to Paris, where he met members of the avant-garde, including Émile Bernard and Paul Gauguin, who were reacting against the Impressionist sensibility. As his work developed he created a new approach to still lifes and local landscapes. His paintings grew brighter in colour as he developed a style that became fully realised during his stay in Arles in the south of France in 1888. During this period he broadened his subject matter to include series of olive trees, wheat fields and sunflowers.   Van Gogh suffered from psychotic episodes and delusions and though he worried about his mental stability, he often neglected his physical health, did not eat properly and drank heavily. His friendship with Gauguin ended after a confrontation with a razor, when in a rage, he severed part of his own left ear. He spent time in psychiatric hospitals, including a period at Saint-Rémy. After he discharged himself and moved to the Auberge Ravoux in Auvers-sur-Oise near Paris, he came under the care of the homeopathic doctor Paul Gachet. His depression continued and on 27 July 1890, Van Gogh shot himself in the chest with a revolver. He died from his injuries two days later.   Van Gogh was unsuccessful during his lifetime, and was considered a madman and a failure. He became famous after his suicide, and exists in the public imagination as the quintessential misunderstood genius, the artist "where discourses on madness and creativity converge". His reputation began to grow in the early 20th century as elements of his painting style came to be incorporated by the Fauves and German Expressionists. He attained widespread critical, commercial and popular success over the ensuing decades, and is remembered as an important but tragic painter, whose troubled personality typifies the romantic ideal of the tortured artist.
Vladimir NabokovNabokov in Montreux, 1973BornVladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov 22 April [O.S. 10 April] 1899 Saint Petersburg, Russian EmpireDied2 July 1977(1977-07-02) (aged 78) Montreux, SwitzerlandOccupationNovelist, professorNationalityRussian, American and SwissAlma materUniversity of CambridgeLiterary movementModernism, postmodernismNotable worksThe Defense (1930) The Gift (1938) Bend Sinister (1945–46) Lolita (1955) Pnin (1957) Pale Fire (1962) Speak, Memory (1936–1966) Ada, or Ardor (1969)SpouseVera NabokovChildrenDmitri NabokovSignatureWebsitevladimir-nabokov.org Literature portal   Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov (/nəˈbɒkəf, -ˈbɔː-/; Russian: Влади́мир Влади́мирович Набо́ков [vɫɐˈdʲimʲɪr nɐˈbokəf] (, also known by the pen name Vladimir Sirin; 22 April [O.S. 10 April] 1899 – 2 July 1977) was a Russian-born novelist, poet, translator and entomologist. His first nine novels were in Russian, but he achieved international prominence after he began writing English prose.   Nabokov's Lolita (1955), his most noted novel in English, was ranked fourth in the list of the Modern Library 100 Best Novels; Pale Fire (1962) was ranked 53rd on the same list, and his memoir, Speak, Memory (1951), was listed eighth on the publisher's list of the 20th century's greatest nonfiction. He was a finalist for the National Book Award for Fiction seven times.   Nabokov was an expert lepidopterist and composer of chess problems.
Wallace Stevens (October 2, 1879 – August 2, 1955) was an American modernist poet. He was born in Reading, Pennsylvania, educated at Harvard and then New York Law School, and he spent most of his life working as an executive for an insurance company in Hartford, Connecticut. He won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry for his Collected Poems in 1955.   Stevens' first period of writing begins with his 1923 publication of the Harmonium collection, followed by a slightly revised and amended second edition in 1930. His second period occurred in the eleven years immediately preceding the publication of his Transport to Summer, when Stevens had written three volumes of poems including Ideas of Order, The Man with the Blue Guitar, Parts of the World, along with Transport to Summer. His third and final period of writing poems occurred with the publication of The Auroras of Autumn in the early 1950s followed by the release of his Collected Poems in 1954 a year before his death.   His best-known poems include The Auroras of Autumn, "Anecdote of the Jar", "Disillusionment of Ten O'Clock", "The Emperor of Ice-Cream", "The Idea of Order at Key West", "Sunday Morning", "The Snow Man", and "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird".
Wally Lamb (born October 17, 1950) is an American author known as the writer of the novels She's Come Undone and I Know This Much Is True, both of which were selected for Oprah's Book Club. He was the director of the Writing Center at Norwich Free Academy in Norwich from 1989 to 1998 and has taught Creative Writing in the English Department at the University of Connecticut.
Walter Isaacson (born May 20, 1952) is an American writer and journalist. He is the University Professor of History at Tulane University. He has been the President and CEO of the Aspen Institute, a nonpartisan educational and policy studies organization based in Washington, D.C., chairman and CEO of CNN and Managing Editor of Time. He has written biographies of Leonardo da Vinci, Steve Jobs, Benjamin Franklin, Albert Einstein, and Henry Kissinger.
Warsan Shire FRSL (born 1 August 1988) is a British writer, poet, editor and teacher, who was born to Somali parents in Kenya. In 2013 she was awarded the inaugural Brunel University African Poetry Prize, chosen from a shortlist of six candidates out of a total 655 entries. Her words "No one leaves home unless/home is the mouth of a shark", from the poem "Conversations about Home (at a deportation center)", have been called "a rallying call for refugees and their advocates".
Washington Irving (April 3, 1783 – November 28, 1859) was an American short story writer, essayist, biographer, historian, and diplomat of the early 19th century. He is best known for his short stories "Rip Van Winkle" (1819) and "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" (1820), both of which appear in his collection, The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon, Gent. His historical works include biographies of Oliver Goldsmith, Islamic prophet Muhammad, and George Washington, as well as several histories of 15th-century Spain dealing with subjects such as Alhambra, Christopher Columbus, and the Moors. Irving served as the U.S. ambassador to Spain from 1842 to 1846.   He made his literary debut in 1802 with a series of observational letters to the Morning Chronicle, written under the pseudonym Jonathan Oldstyle. Moving to England for the family business in 1815, he achieved international fame with the publication of The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon, Gent., serialized from 1819–20. He continued to publish regularly—and almost always successfully—throughout his life, and just eight months before his death (at age 76, in Tarrytown, New York), completed a five-volume biography of George Washington.   Irving, along with James Fenimore Cooper, was among the first American writers to earn acclaim in Europe, and Irving encouraged American authors such as Nathaniel Hawthorne, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Herman Melville, and Edgar Allan Poe. Irving was also admired by some British writers, including Lord Byron, Thomas Campbell, Charles Dickens, Francis Jeffrey, and Walter Scott. Also, as the United States' first internationally best-selling author, Irving advocated for writing as a legitimate profession and argued for stronger laws to protect American writers from copyright infringement.
Wasif Ali Wasif (15 January 1929 – 18 January 1993) was a teacher, writer, poet and sufi intellectual from Pakistan. He was the son of Muhammad Arif. Wasif Ali Wasif received his early education from Khushab before going to Jhang where he passed matriculation, intermediate and bachelor's in first division.   He was proficient at playing hockey and received many awards during his school and college time. After completing his bachelor's degree, he opted for English literature for his master's degree. Wasif started writing for the college magazine named "Ravi". He wrote on many topics. His two writings on the topics “College Miserable Life” and “Farewell Party” survive to this day.   He also passed the civil service exam but did not pursue it. In 1962 he established his own institute named "Lahore English College" near anarkali in Lahore. Wasif had an interest in Sufism from his very childhood. He strived to meet sufis and visited different shrines.   He is famous for his literary works. He is said to have been cited in quotations more than any other contemporary Urdu writer. Master of aphorism, he has downright a miraculous ability to capture a rainbow of meaning in a few dewdrops of well chosen words. Many of his aphorisms have become proverbs in recent years. His book "Kiran Kiran Suraj(کرن کرن سورج)" containing these aphorisms remained best seller for many many years. He used to write short essays on topics like love, life, fortune, fear, hope, expectation, promise, prayer, happiness, sorrow and so on with clear objective of highlighting the true spirit of Islam. He was a regular columnist of Pakistani Urdu daily newspaper Nawa-i-Waqt. His column was named "GUFTGOO (گفتگو)" and it started publishing in newspaper in 1984. His shrine is in Lahore in the famous Mianiasaab graveyard where his Urs is celebrated on 22–24 Rajab annually.
Wikipedia does not have an encyclopedia article for Chinese proverb (search results). You may want to read Wikiquote's entry on "Chinese proverbs" instead.Wikiquote:Special:Search/Chinese proverbs   See also   - Proverbs commonly attributed to be Chinese
Wilhelm Reich (/raɪx/; German: [ʁaɪç]; 24 March 1897 – 3 November 1957) was an Austrian doctor of medicine and psychoanalyst, a member of the second generation of analysts after Sigmund Freud. The author of several influential books, most notably Character Analysis (1933), The Mass Psychology of Fascism (1933), and The Sexual Revolution (1936), Reich became known as one of the most radical figures in the history of psychiatry.[n 1]   Reich's work on character contributed to the development of Anna Freud's The Ego and the Mechanisms of Defence (1936), and his idea of muscular armour—the expression of the personality in the way the body moves—shaped innovations such as body psychotherapy, Gestalt therapy, bioenergetic analysis and primal therapy. His writing influenced generations of intellectuals; he coined the phrase "the sexual revolution" and according to one historian acted as its midwife. During the 1968 student uprisings in Paris and Berlin, students scrawled his name on walls and threw copies of The Mass Psychology of Fascism at police.   After graduating in medicine from the University of Vienna in 1922, Reich became deputy director of Freud's outpatient clinic, the Vienna Ambulatorium. Described by Elizabeth Danto as a large man with a cantankerous style who managed to look scruffy and elegant at the same time, he tried to reconcile psychoanalysis with Marxism, arguing that neurosis is rooted in sexual and socio-economic conditions, and in particular in a lack of what he called "orgastic potency". He visited patients in their homes to see how they lived, and took to the streets in a mobile clinic, promoting adolescent sexuality and the availability of contraceptives, abortion and divorce, a provocative message in Catholic Austria. He said he wanted to "attack the neurosis by its prevention rather than treatment".   From the 1930s he became an increasingly controversial figure, and from 1932 until his death in 1957 all his work was self-published. His message of sexual liberation disturbed the psychoanalytic community and his political associates, and his vegetotherapy, in which he massaged his disrobed patients to dissolve their "muscular armour", violated the key taboos of psychoanalysis. He moved to New York in 1939, in part to escape the Nazis, and shortly after arriving coined the term "orgone"—from "orgasm" and "organism"—for a biological energy he said he had discovered, which he said others called God. In 1940 he started building orgone accumulators, devices that his patients sat inside to harness the reputed health benefits, leading to newspaper stories about sex boxes that cured cancer.   Following two critical articles about him in The New Republic and Harper's in 1947, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration obtained an injunction against the interstate shipment of orgone accumulators and associated literature, believing they were dealing with a "fraud of the first magnitude". Charged with contempt in 1956 for having violated the injunction, Reich was sentenced to two years imprisonment, and that summer over six tons of his publications were burned by order of the court.[n 2] He died in prison of heart failure just over a year later, days before he was due to apply for parole.
Willard Van Orman Quine (/kwaɪn/; known to intimates as "Van"; June 25, 1908 – December 25, 2000) was an American philosopher and logician in the analytic tradition, recognized as "one of the most influential philosophers of the twentieth century." From 1930 until his death 70 years later, Quine was continually affiliated with Harvard University in one way or another, first as a student, then as a professor of philosophy and a teacher of logic and set theory, and finally as a professor emeritus who published or revised several books in retirement. He filled the Edgar Pierce Chair of Philosophy at Harvard from 1956 to 1978. A 2009 poll conducted among analytic philosophers named Quine as the fifth most important philosopher of the past two centuries. He won the first Schock Prize in Logic and Philosophy in 1993 for "his systematical and penetrating discussions of how learning of language and communication are based on socially available evidence and of the consequences of this for theories on knowledge and linguistic meaning." In 1996 he was awarded the Kyoto Prize in Arts and Philosophy for his "outstanding contributions to the progress of philosophy in the 20th century by proposing numerous theories based on keen insights in logic, epistemology, philosophy of science and philosophy of language."   Quine falls squarely into the analytic philosophy tradition while also being the main proponent of the view that philosophy is not conceptual analysis but the abstract branch of the empirical sciences. His major writings include "Two Dogmas of Empiricism" (1951), which attacked the distinction between analytic and synthetic propositions and advocated a form of semantic holism, and Word and Object (1960), which further developed these positions and introduced Quine's famous indeterminacy of translation thesis, advocating a behaviorist theory of meaning. He also developed an influential naturalized epistemology that tried to provide "an improved scientific explanation of how we have developed elaborate scientific theories on the basis of meager sensory input." He is also important in philosophy of science for his "systematic attempt to understand science from within the resources of science itself" and for his conception of philosophy as continuous with science. This led to his famous quip that "philosophy of science is philosophy enough." In philosophy of mathematics, he and his Harvard colleague Hilary Putnam developed the "Quine–Putnam indispensability thesis," an argument for the reality of mathematical entities.
William Blake (28 November 1757 – 12 August 1827) was an English poet, painter, and printmaker. Largely unrecognised during his lifetime, Blake is now considered a seminal figure in the history of the poetry and visual arts of the Romantic Age. What he called his prophetic works were said by 20th-century critic Northrop Frye to form "what is in proportion to its merits the least read body of poetry in the English language". His visual artistry led 21st-century critic Jonathan Jones to proclaim him "far and away the greatest artist Britain has ever produced". In 2002, Blake was placed at number 38 in the BBC's poll of the 100 Greatest Britons. While he lived in London his entire life, except for three years spent in Felpham, he produced a diverse and symbolically rich œuvre, which embraced the imagination as "the body of God" or "human existence itself".   Although Blake was considered mad by contemporaries for his idiosyncratic views, he is held in high regard by later critics for his expressiveness and creativity, and for the philosophical and mystical undercurrents within his work. His paintings and poetry have been characterised as part of the Romantic movement and as "Pre-Romantic". A committed Christian who was hostile to the Church of England (indeed, to almost all forms of organised religion), Blake was influenced by the ideals and ambitions of the French and American Revolutions. Though later he rejected many of these political beliefs, he maintained an amiable relationship with the political activist Thomas Paine; he was also influenced by thinkers such as Emanuel Swedenborg. Despite these known influences, the singularity of Blake's work makes him difficult to classify. The 19th-century scholar William Rossetti characterised him as a "glorious luminary", and "a man not forestalled by predecessors, nor to be classed with contemporaries, nor to be replaced by known or readily surmisable successors".
William Butler Yeats (13 June 1865 – 28 January 1939) was an Irish poet and one of the foremost figures of 20th-century literature. A pillar of the Irish literary establishment, he helped to found the Abbey Theatre, and in his later years served as a Senator of the Irish Free State for two terms. He was a driving force behind the Irish Literary Revival along with Lady Gregory, Edward Martyn and others.   Yeats was born in Sandymount, Ireland and educated there and in London. He spent childhood holidays in County Sligo and studied poetry from an early age when he became fascinated by Irish legends and the occult. These topics feature in the first phase of his work, which lasted roughly until the turn of the 20th century. His earliest volume of verse was published in 1889, and its slow-paced and lyrical poems display debts to Edmund Spenser, Percy Bysshe Shelley, and the poets of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood. From 1900, his poetry grew more physical and realistic. He largely renounced the transcendental beliefs of his youth, though he remained preoccupied with physical and spiritual masks, as well as with cyclical theories of life. In 1923, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature.
William Carlos Williams (September 17, 1883 – March 4, 1963) was a Puerto Rican-American poet and physician closely associated with modernism and imagism.   In addition to his writing, Williams had a long career as a physician practicing both pediatrics and general medicine. He was affiliated with Passaic General Hospital, where he served as the hospital's chief of pediatrics from 1924 until his death. The hospital, which is now known as St. Mary's General Hospital, paid tribute to Williams with a memorial plaque that states "we walk the wards that Williams walked".
William Cowper (/ˈkuːpər/ KOO-pər; 26 November 1731 – 25 April 1800) was an English poet and hymnodist. One of the most popular poets of his time, Cowper changed the direction of 18th-century nature poetry by writing of everyday life and scenes of the English countryside. In many ways, he was one of the forerunners of Romantic poetry. Samuel Taylor Coleridge called him "the best modern poet", whilst William Wordsworth particularly admired his poem Yardley-Oak.   After being institutionalised for insanity in the period 1763–65, Cowper found refuge in a fervent evangelical Christianity, the inspiration behind his much-loved hymns. He continued to suffer doubt and, after a dream in 1773, believed that he was doomed to eternal damnation. He recovered and wrote more religious hymns.   His religious sentiment and association with John Newton (who wrote the hymn "Amazing Grace") led to much of the poetry for which he is best remembered, and to the series of Olney Hymns. His poem "Light Shining out of Darkness" gave English the phrase: "God moves in a mysterious way/His wonders to perform."   He also wrote a number of anti-slavery poems and his friendship with Newton, who was an avid anti-slavery campaigner, resulted in Cowper being asked to write in support of the Abolitionist campaign. Cowper wrote a poem called "The Negro's Complaint" (1788) which rapidly became very famous, and was often quoted by Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. during the 20th century civil rights movement. He also wrote several other less well known poems on slavery in the 1780s, many of which attacked the idea that slavery was economically viable.
William Goldman (August 12, 1931 – November 16, 2018) was an American novelist, playwright, and screenwriter. He first came to prominence in the 1950s as a novelist, before turning to screenwriting. He won two Academy Awards for his screenplays, first for the western Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid (1969) and again for All the President's Men (1976).   His other works include his thriller novel Marathon Man and comedy-fantasy novel The Princess Bride, both of which Goldman adapted for the film versions.   Author Sean Egan has described Goldman as "one of the late twentieth century's most popular storytellers."
William Hazlitt (10 April 1778 – 18 September 1830) was an English essayist, drama and literary critic, painter, social commentator, and philosopher. He is now considered one of the greatest critics and essayists in the history of the English language, placed in the company of Samuel Johnson and George Orwell. He is also acknowledged as the finest art critic of his age. Despite his high standing among historians of literature and art, his work is currently little read and mostly out of print.   During his lifetime he befriended many people who are now part of the 19th-century literary canon, including Charles and Mary Lamb, Stendhal, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, William Wordsworth, and John Keats.
William James Collins, known as Billy Collins, (born March 22, 1941) is an American poet, appointed as Poet Laureate of the United States from 2001 to 2003. In 2016, Collins retired from his position as a Distinguished Professor at Lehman College of the City University of New York after teaching there almost 50 years. Collins is the Senior Distinguished Fellow of the Winter Park Institute at Rollins College, Winter Park, Florida. Collins was considered as a Literary Lion of the New York Public Library (1992) and selected as the New York State Poet for 2004 through 2006. As of 2018, he is a teacher in the MFA program at Stony Brook Southampton.
William James (January 11, 1842 – August 26, 1910) was an American philosopher and psychologist, and the first educator to offer a psychology course in the United States. James was a leading thinker of the late nineteenth century, one of the most influential U.S. philosophers, and has been labelled the "Father of American psychology".   Along with Charles Sanders Peirce, James established the philosophical school known as pragmatism, and is also cited as one of the founders of functional psychology. A Review of General Psychology analysis, published in 2002, ranked James as the 14th most eminent psychologist of the 20th century. A survey published in American Psychologist in 1991 ranked James's reputation in second place, after Wilhelm Wundt, who is widely regarded as the founder of experimental psychology. James also developed the philosophical perspective known as radical empiricism. James' work has influenced intellectuals such as Émile Durkheim, W. E. B. Du Bois, Edmund Husserl, Bertrand Russell, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Hilary Putnam, and Richard Rorty, and has even influenced Presidents, such as Jimmy Carter.   Born into a wealthy family, James was the son of the Swedenborgian theologian Henry James Sr. and the brother of both the prominent novelist Henry James and the diarist Alice James. James trained as a physician and taught anatomy at Harvard, but never practiced medicine. Instead he pursued his interests in psychology and then philosophy. James wrote widely on many topics, including epistemology, education, metaphysics, psychology, religion, and mysticism. Among his most influential books are The Principles of Psychology, which was a groundbreaking text in the field of psychology; Essays in Radical Empiricism, an important text in philosophy; and The Varieties of Religious Experience, which investigated different forms of religious experience, including theories on mind-cure.
William James Sidis (/ˈsaɪdɪs/; April 1, 1898 – July 17, 1944) was an American child prodigy with exceptional mathematical and linguistic skills. He is notable for his 1920 book The Animate and the Inanimate, in which he postulates the existence of dark matter, entropy and the origin of life in the context of thermodynamics. Sidis was raised in a particular manner by his father, psychologist Boris Sidis, who wished his son to be gifted. Sidis first became famous for his precocity and later for his eccentricity and withdrawal from public life. Eventually, he avoided mathematics altogether, writing on other subjects under a number of pseudonyms. He entered Harvard at age 11 and, as an adult, was claimed to have an extremely high IQ, and to be conversant in about 25 languages and dialects. Some of these claims have not been verifiable, but peers such as Norbert Wiener supported the assertion that his intelligence was very high.
William Maher (/mɑːr/; born January 20, 1956) is an American comedian, political commentator and television host. He is known for the HBO political talk show Real Time with Bill Maher (2003–present) and the similar late-night show called Politically Incorrect (1993–2002), originally on Comedy Central and later on ABC.   Maher is known for his sarcastic attitude, political satire and sociopolitical commentary. He targets many topics including religion, politics, bureaucracy, political correctness and the mass media.   Maher supports the legalization of cannabis and same-sex marriage. His critical views of religion were the basis for the 2008 documentary film Religulous. He is a supporter of animal rights, having served on the board of PETA since 1997 and is an advisory board member of Project Reason. In 2005, Maher ranked at number 38 on Comedy Central's 100 greatest stand-up comedians of all time. He received a Hollywood Walk of Fame star on September 14, 2010.
William Makepeace Thackeray (/ˈθækəri/; 18 July 1811 – 24 December 1863) was a British novelist and author. He is known for his satirical works, particularly Vanity Fair, a panoramic portrait of English society.
William Penn (14 October 1644 – 30 July 1718) was the son of Sir William Penn, and was an English nobleman, writer, early Quaker, and founder of the English North American colony the Province of Pennsylvania. He was an early advocate of democracy and religious freedom, notable for his good relations and successful treaties with the Lenape Native Americans. Under his direction, the city of Philadelphia was planned and developed.   In 1681, King Charles II handed over a large piece of his American land holdings to Penn to pay the debts the king owed to Penn's father. This land included present-day Pennsylvania and Delaware. Penn immediately set sail and took his first step on American soil in New Castle (now in Delaware) in 1682 after his trans-Atlantic journey. On this occasion, the colonists pledged allegiance to Penn as their new proprietor, and the first general assembly was held in the colony. Afterwards, Penn journeyed up the Delaware River and founded Philadelphia. However, Penn's Quaker government was not viewed favourably by the Dutch, Swedish, and English settlers in what is now Delaware. They had no "historical" allegiance to Pennsylvania, so they almost immediately began petitioning for their own assembly. In 1704 they achieved their goal when the three southernmost counties of Pennsylvania were permitted to split off and become the new semi-autonomous colony of Lower Delaware. As the most prominent, prosperous and influential "city" in the new colony, New Castle became the capital.   As one of the earlier supporters of colonial unification, Penn wrote and urged for a union of all the English colonies in what was to become the United States of America. The democratic principles that he set forth in the Pennsylvania Frame of Government served as an inspiration for the United States Constitution. As a pacifist Quaker, Penn considered the problems of war and peace deeply. He developed a forward-looking project for a United States of Europe through the creation of a European Assembly made of deputies that could discuss and adjudicate controversies peacefully. He is therefore considered the very first thinker to suggest the creation of a European Parliament.   A man of deep religious convictions, Penn wrote numerous works in which he exhorted believers to adhere to the spirit of Primitive Christianity. He was imprisoned several times in the Tower of London due to his faith, and his book No Cross, No Crown (1669), which he wrote while in prison, has become a Christian classic.
William Robertson Davies, CC OOnt FRSC FRSL (28 August 1913 – 2 December 1995) was a Canadian novelist, playwright, critic, journalist, and professor. He was one of Canada's best known and most popular authors and one of its most distinguished "men of letters", a term Davies is variously said to have both gladly accepted for himself and to have detested. Davies was the founding Master of Massey College, a graduate residential college associated with the University of Toronto.
William Saroyan (/səˈrɔɪən/; August 31, 1908 – May 18, 1981) was an Armenian-American novelist, playwright, and short story writer. He was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1940, and in 1943 won the Academy Award for Best Story for the film adaptation of his novel The Human Comedy.   An Armenian American, Saroyan wrote extensively about the Armenian immigrant life in California. Many of his stories and plays are set in his native Fresno. Some of his best-known works are The Time of Your Life, My Name Is Aram and  My Heart's in the Highlands.   He has been described in a Dickinson College news release as "one of the most prominent literary figures of the mid-20th century" and by Stephen Fry as "one of the most underrated writers of the  century." Fry suggests that "he takes his place naturally alongside Hemingway, Steinbeck and Faulkner."
William Shakespeare (bapt. 26 April 1564 – 23 April 1616) was an English poet, playwright and actor, widely regarded as the greatest writer in the English language and the world's greatest dramatist. He is often called England's national poet and the "Bard of Avon". His extant works, including collaborations, consist of approximately 39 plays, 154 sonnets, two long narrative poems, and a few other verses, some of uncertain authorship. His plays have been translated into every major living language and are performed more often than those of any other playwright.   Shakespeare was born and raised in Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire. At the age of 18, he married Anne Hathaway, with whom he had three children: Susanna and twins Hamnet and Judith. Sometime between 1585 and 1592, he began a successful career in London as an actor, writer, and part-owner of a playing company called the Lord Chamberlain's Men, later known as the King's Men. At age 49 (around 1613), he appears to have retired to Stratford, where he died three years later. Few records of Shakespeare's private life survive; this has stimulated considerable speculation about such matters as his physical appearance, his sexuality, his religious beliefs, and whether the works attributed to him were written by others. Such theories are often criticised for failing to adequately note that few records survive of most commoners of the period.   Shakespeare produced most of his known works between 1589 and 1613. His early plays were primarily comedies and histories and are regarded as some of the best work produced in these genres. Until about 1608, he wrote mainly tragedies, among them Hamlet, Othello, King Lear, and Macbeth, all considered to be among the finest works in the English language. In the last phase of his life, he wrote tragicomedies (also known as romances) and collaborated with other playwrights.   Many of Shakespeare's plays were published in editions of varying quality and accuracy in his lifetime. However, in 1623, two fellow actors and friends of Shakespeare's, John Heminges and Henry Condell, published a more definitive text known as the First Folio, a posthumous collected edition of Shakespeare's dramatic works that included all but two of his plays. The volume was prefaced with a poem by Ben Jonson, in which Jonson presciently hails Shakespeare in a now-famous quote as "not of an age, but for all time".   Throughout the 20th and 21st centuries, Shakespeare's works have been continually adapted and rediscovered by new movements in scholarship and performance. His plays remain popular and are studied, performed, and reinterpreted through various cultural and political contexts around the world.
William Somerset Maugham, CH (/mɔːm/ MAWM; 25 January 1874 – 16 December 1965), better known as W. Somerset Maugham, was a British playwright, novelist and short story writer. He was among the most popular writers of his era and reputedly the highest-paid author during the 1930s.   After both his parents died before he was 10, Maugham was raised by a paternal uncle who was emotionally cold. Not wanting to become a lawyer like other men in his family, Maugham eventually trained and qualified as a physician. The initial run of his first novel, Liza of Lambeth (1897), sold out so rapidly that Maugham gave up medicine to write full-time.   During the First World War he served with the Red Cross and in the ambulance corps, before being recruited in 1916 into the British Secret Intelligence Service, for which he worked in Switzerland and Russia before the October Revolution of 1917. During and after the war, he travelled in India and Southeast Asia; these experiences were reflected in later short stories and novels.
William Wilkie Collins (8 January 1824 – 23 September 1889) was an English novelist, playwright, and short story writer. His best-known works are The Woman in White (1859), No Name (1862), Armadale (1866) and The Moonstone (1868). The last is considered the first modern English detective novel. Born to the family of painter William Collins in London, he lived with them in Italy and France as a child, learning French and Italian. He worked as a clerk for a tea merchant. After his first novel, Antonina, appeared in 1850, he met Charles Dickens, who became a close friend, mentor and collaborator. Some of Collins's works were first published in Dickens's journals All the Year Round and Household Words and they collaborated on drama and fiction. Collins published his best known work in the 1860s, achieving financial stability and an international reputation. However, he began suffering from gout. From taking opium for the pain, he developed an addiction. In the 1870s and 1880s the quality of his writing declined along with his health. Collins was critical of the institution of marriage and never married; he split his time between Caroline Graves, except for a two-year separation, and his common-law wife Martha Rudd, with whom he had three children.
William Wordsworth (7 April 1770 – 23 April 1850) was a major English Romantic poet who, with Samuel Taylor Coleridge, helped to launch the Romantic Age in English literature with their joint publication Lyrical Ballads (1798).   Wordsworth's magnum opus is generally considered to be The Prelude, a semi-autobiographical poem of his early years that he revised and expanded a number of times. It was posthumously titled and published, before which it was generally known as "the poem to Coleridge". Wordsworth was Britain's poet laureate from 1843 until his death from pleurisy on 23 April 1850.
Writing under the pseudonym Mira Grant, she published the political thriller/zombie series Newsflesh, comprising the books Feed (2010), Deadline (2011), Blackout (2012, nominated for a 2013 Hugo Award for Best Novel), and Feedback (2016). Additionally, in 2017, The Wine in Dreams was published as part of the novella collection Star Wars: Canto Bight, a tie-in to the 2017 film Star Wars: The Last Jedi.   In 2013, McGuire received a record five Hugo nominations in total, two for works as Grant and the other three under her own name.
Xiaolu Guo (simplified Chinese: 郭小橹; traditional Chinese: 郭小櫓; pinyin: Guō Xiǎolǔ) born 1973) is a Chinese-British novelist, memoirist and film-maker, who explores alienation, memory, personal and physical journeys, feminism, translation and transnational identities.   Her books have been translated into 28 languages. Nine Continents: A Memoir In and Out of China won the National Book Critics Circle Award 2017. In 2013, she was named as one of Granta's Best of Young British Novelists, a list drawn up once a decade. She is one of the inaugural fellows of the Columbia Institute of Ideas and Imagination in Paris, 2018 and a jury member for the Man Booker Prize 2019.
Yann Martel (born 25 June 1963) is a Spanish-born Canadian author best known for the Man Booker Prize-winning novel Life of Pi, a #1 international bestseller published in more than 50 territories. It has sold more than 12 million copies worldwide and spent more than a year on the Bestseller Lists of the New York Times and The Globe and Mail, among many other best-selling lists. It was adapted to the screen and directed by Ang Lee, garnering four Oscars (the most for the event) including Best Director and won the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Score.   Martel is also the author of the novels The High Mountains of Portugal, Beatrice and Virgil and Self, the collection of stories The Facts Behind the Helsinki Roccamatios, and a collection of letters to the prime minister of Canada, 101 Letters to a Prime Minister. He has won a number of literary prizes, including the 2001 Hugh MacLennan Prize for Fiction and the 2002 Asian/Pacific American Award for Literature.   He lives in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, with the writer Alice Kuipers and their four children.   Although his first language is French, Yann Martel writes in English: "English is the language in which I best express the subtlety of life. But I must say that French is the language closest to my heart. And for this same reason, English gives me a sufficient distance to write."
Yash Thakur (born 28 June 1999) is an Indian cricketer. He made his List A debut for Vidarbha in the 2016–17 Vijay Hazare Trophy on 25 February 2017. He made his first-class debut for Vidarbha in the 2018–19 Ranji Trophy on 28 November 2018.  References    1. ^ "Yash Thakur". ESPN Cricinfo. Retrieved 25 February 2017.  2. ^ "Vijay Hazare Trophy, Group A: Punjab v Vidarbha at Delhi, Feb 25, 2017". ESPN Cricinfo. Retrieved 25 February 2017.  3. ^ "Elite, Group A, Ranji Trophy at Raipur, Nov 28 - Dec 1 2018". ESPN Cricinfo. Retrieved 28 November 2018.  External links   - Yash Thakur at ESPNcricinfo  This biographical article related to an Indian cricket person born in the 1990s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.  - v - t - e
Yiyun Li (Chinese: 李翊雲; born November 4, 1972) is a Chinese-American writer, writing in English. Her short stories and novels have won several awards and distinctions. She is presently an editor of the Brooklyn-based literary magazine A Public Space.
Yukio Mishima  (三島 由紀夫, Mishima Yukio) is the pen name of Kimitake Hiraoka (平岡 公威, Hiraoka Kimitake, January 14, 1925 – November 25, 1970), a Japanese author, poet, playwright, actor, model, film director, nationalist, and founder of the Tatenokai. Mishima is considered one of the most important Japanese authors of the 20th century. He was considered for the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1968, but the award went to his countryman Yasunari Kawabata. His works include the novels Confessions of a Mask and The Temple of the Golden Pavilion, and the autobiographical essay Sun and Steel. His avant-garde work displayed a blending of modern and traditional aesthetics that broke cultural boundaries, with a focus on sexuality, death, and political change.   Mishima was active as a nationalist and founded his own right-wing militia, the Tatenokai. In 1970, he and four other members of his militia attempted a coup d'état when they seized control of a Japanese military base and took the commander hostage, then tried and failed to inspire a coup to restore the Emperor's pre-war powers, in accordance with Mishima's conceptualization of the Kokutai. Mishima then committed ritual suicide by seppuku. The coup attempt became known as the "Mishima Incident".
Yuval Noah Harari (Hebrew: יובל נח הררי‎; born 24 February 1976) is an Israeli historian and a tenured professor in the Department of History at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. He is the author of the international bestsellers Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind (2014), Homo Deus: A Brief History of Tomorrow (2016), and 21 Lessons for the 21st Century (2018). His writings examine free will, consciousness, and intelligence.   Harari's early publications are concerned with what he describes as the "cognitive revolution" occurring roughly 50,000 years ago, when Homo sapiens supplanted the rival Neanderthals, developed language skills and structured societies, and ascended as apex predators, aided by the agricultural revolution and more recently accelerated by scientific methodology and rationale which have allowed humans to approach near mastery over their environment.   His recent books are more cautionary, and work through the consequences of a futuristic biotechnological world where intelligent biological organisms are surpassed by their own creations; he has said "Homo sapiens as we know them will disappear in a century or so".
Zadie Smith FRSL (born 25 October 1975) is a contemporary British novelist, essayist, and short-story writer. Her debut novel, White Teeth (2000), immediately became a best-seller and won a number of awards. Her most recent book is Feel Free (2018), a collection of essays. She has been a tenured professor in the Creative Writing faculty of New York University since September 2010.
Zeena Schreck (born Zeena Galatea LaVey, November 19, 1963), known professionally by her mononymous artist name ZEENA, is a Berlin-based American visual and musical artist, author and the spiritual leader of the Sethian Liberation Movement (SLM), which she founded in 2002.   Raised within her father's organization, the Church of Satan, she came to international prominence early in life as the Church's first spokesperson, defending the organization during the 1980s. In 1990 she resigned her position, severed ties with her father Anton LaVey and his Church, and renounced the church's tenets. Since that time, her religion changed to Buddhism and she is now a teacher of Tibetan Tantric Buddhism.
Zora Neale Hurston (January 7, 1891 – January 28, 1960) was an influential author of African-American literature and anthropologist, who portrayed racial struggles in the early 20th century American South, and published research on Haitian voodoo. Of Hurston's four novels and more than 50 published short stories, plays, and essays, her most popular is the 1937 novel Their Eyes Were Watching God.   Hurston was born in Notasulga, Alabama, and moved to Eatonville, Florida, with her family in 1894. Eatonville would become the setting for many of her stories and is now the site of the Zora! Festival, held each year in Hurston's honor. In her early career, Hurston conducted anthropological and ethnographic research while attending Barnard College. While in New York she became a central figure of the Harlem Renaissance. Her short satires, drawing from the African-American experience and racial division, were published in anthologies such as The New Negro and Fire!! After moving back to Florida, Hurston published her literary anthropology on African-American folklore in North Florida, Mules and Men (1935) and her first three novels: Jonah's Gourd Vine (1934); Their Eyes Were Watching God (1937); and Moses, Man of the Mountain (1939). Also published during this time was Tell My Horse: Voodoo and Life in Haiti and Jamaica (1938), documenting her research on rituals in Jamaica and Haiti.   Hurston's works touched on the African-American experience and her struggles as an African-American woman. Her novels went relatively unrecognized by the literary world for decades, but interest revived after author Alice Walker published "In Search of Zora Neale Hurston" in the March 1975 issue of Ms. Magazine. Hurston's manuscript Every Tongue Got to Confess (2001), a collection of folktales gathered in the 1920s, was published posthumously after being discovered in the Smithsonian archives. Her nonfiction book Barracoon was published posthumously in 2018.
